Deputy Interior Minister Yevhen Yenin told the BBC Ukraine would be bolstering the Belarusian border with armed forces and ammunition.
The news came as Vladimir Putin travelled to Minsk to meet Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko.
Belarus shares a border with Russia as well as Ukraine.
The Russian president later ordered the strengthening of Russia's borders and of social control within Russia. He said the security services should quickly thwart any attempt to violate Russia's borders, combat risks coming from abroad, and identify traitors and saboteurs.
He also said the special services should ensure the safety of people living in the parts of Ukraine that Moscow claims as its own. In some of these areas, most notably Kherson, Russia recently suffered significant military reverses.
Russia's defence ministry announced that its troops stationed in Belarus would conduct joint military exercises with Belarus.
Reacting to this and the visit Mr Yenin confirmed: "We are building up our defence lines all across the border with Russia and with Belarus."
While Belarus has not become involved in the war directly, it did allow Russian troops to use its territory to launch the invasion in February.
Minsk is coming under increasing pressure from Moscow to step up its support in the "special military operation".
But Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov dismissed the reports "as totally stupid, groundless fabrications".
President Putin flew to Minsk for talks with President Lukashenko - the first time in three-and-a-half years the pair have met in Belarus.
Speaking at a joint press conference President Putin said Russia did not want to "absorb" anyone. He also said that unspecified "enemies" wanted to stop Russia's integration with Belarus.
Speaking later on Monday, US state department spokesperson Ned Price said Putin's statement was the "height of irony" given he was currently seeking to absorb Ukraine.
For the first time in three-and-a-half years, here was President Putin in Belarus. So why did he go… and why now?
Something rare happened today: Vladimir Putin got on a plane and flew to Minsk. Now, President Putin and President Alexander Lukashenko meet a lot - but in Russia.
For the first time in three-and-a-half years, here was President Putin in Belarus. So why did he go… and why now?
There were few clues at the joint press conference as the two leaders spoke a lot about economic relations, trade, but also security.
President Putin indicated that some Belarusian military aircraft have been re-equipped to potentially carry nuclear missiles and that Russia is helping to train their crews.
But the visit has fuelled speculation that the Kremlin leader may be trying to pressure the leader of Belarus into joining a possible new ground offensive in Ukraine.
This may indeed be just a rumour. Or a ploy by Moscow to make Ukraine expect a Belarusian offensive and so tie up Ukrainian soldiers in the north.
But, there are reportedly several thousand Russian soldiers already in Belarus and there have been joint exercises.
Until now Alexander Lukashenko has been reluctant to commit his own troops to fighting in Ukraine.
HTMS Sukhothai sank after water flooded its power controls on Sunday night. Images shared by the navy showed some crew who survived in a life raft.
On Monday, authorities said they had rescued 75 sailors, but 31 were still missing in rough seas.
"We will keep looking," a navy spokesman told the BBC.
Search crews worked through the night to find survivors, with the operation continuing on Monday with air force assistance.
The navy also announced an investigation into the cause of the disaster.
"This has almost never happened in our force's history, especially to a ship that is still in active use," spokesman Admiral Pogkrong Monthardpalin told the BBC.
Footage shared by the navy on Twitter showed crew members wrapped in blankets and receiving treatment after they had been rescued. Some were being airlifted to hospital.
The families of Haftom and Makda have been seeking treatment in Mekelle, the capital of the Tigray region.
After August, as federal government forces took more territory, the Tigrayan authorities agreed to a ceasefire.
Under the terms of the peace deal signed at the beginning of last month, the authorities in the capital, Addis Ababa, said they would send in more aid.
Dr Kibrom Gebreselassie has been a surgeon at Ayder Referral Hospital for 15 years.
"To see young children and mothers suffer and cry every day, it's traumatising," says Dr Kibrom.
Dr Kibrom says two trucks with medical supplies from the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) were the first to reach Mekelle.
"Take cancer patients, the situation is very grim. There has been no chemotherapy in the entire Tigray," says Dr Kibrom.
The ICRC, itself, says it has sent at least 38 trucks to Mekelle since the middle of November, and more is on its way.
"Efforts are being made by all humanitarian actors but it's not enough compared to the scale of the need," says Jude Fuhnwi, ICRC spokesperson in Ethiopia.
The UN's World Food Programme (WFP) has a target of getting emergency food aid to 2.1 million people in Tigray over the next six months.
"A lot has improved since the peace deal," says Claude Jibidar, WFP representative and Ethiopia country director.
Mekelle remains under the control of the Tigrayan government though federal forces control areas in the north around Shire.
"We don't have enough gloves to do surgery. We have to re-wash and re-use them up to three times," says Dr Kibrom.
A doctor at the same Ayder hospital who wishes to remain anonymous says they are receiving minimal medical supplies.
They say the only positive thing the federal authorities have done is to restore electricity to Mekelle.
The hospital recently tweeted that HIV drugs and test kits had started to arrive.
"I want a better future for her," says Makda's mother Hiwot. "It's all I can think about."
From the explosive opening of Can't Buy Me Love, to the closing chords of The End, Sir Paul McCartney played one of Glastonbury's greatest ever sets this summer.
It was equally moving when Sir Paul played I Got A Feeling as a duet with John Lennon, whose vocals had been isolated for Peter Jackson's Get Back documentary.
Sir Paul's command of the stage is so casual that he makes it look easy. But it isn't. It's pure magic.
Several major cities including the capital Beijing and southern trade hub Guangzhou are experiencing outbreaks.
Wednesday saw 31,527 cases recorded compared with an April peak of 28,000.
The numbers are still tiny for a country of 1.4 billion people and officially just over 5,200 have died since the pandemic began.
That equates to three Covid deaths in every million in China, compared with 3,000 per million in the US and 2,400 per million in the UK, although direct comparisons between countries are difficult.
While China's zero-Covid policy has clearly saved lives, it has also dealt a punishing blow to the economy and ordinary people's lives.
Officials have also sought to avoid enforcing blanket lockdowns of the kind endured by the largest city, Shanghai, earlier this year.
But faced with a renewed surge in cases in Beijing, as well as the first deaths from the virus in months, officials have already implemented some restrictions in several districts, with shops, schools and restaurants closed.
This is not a surprise in China anymore.
Beijing is in the middle of a major Covid outbreak but, even before then, visiting a shopping mall or a building where an infected person had been meant going into home quarantine.
Right now, in the capital's vast Chaoyang district most businesses are closed. In thousands of tower blocks, all residents have been ordered to remain indoors for the next few days initially.
In the regions of Xinjiang and Tibet, the lockdowns have gone on for months.
President Xi Jinping argues that strict curbs are needed to protect the country's large elderly population.
"Lockdowns prevent Covid outbreaks from spreading," William Hurst, professor of Chinese development at Cambridge University, told BBC News recently. "But they also exert incredibly strict social control."
In the UK, the rate at which prices are rising has dropped back slightly, but inflation remains near a 40-year high.
But Mr Silverman believes people will prioritise "affordable indulgences" in a tough economic climate.
Etsy, which was founded in Brooklyn, New York, 17 years ago, is known for its distinctive small sellers, who offer everything from crocheted penguins to furniture.
The UK is one of its key markets, where it has almost a million sellers, the vast majority of whom are women.
A total of 57.5% voted "yes" after Mr Musk asked his 122 million followers whether he should stand down.
Mr Musk, who bought Twitter for $44bn (£36bn), said before the poll closed that he would abide by the result.
The technology tycoon, who also runs Tesla and Space X, has faced much criticism since taking over the site.
In the past Mr Musk has obeyed Twitter polls. He's fond of quoting the phrase "vox populi, vox dei", a Latin phrase which roughly means "the voice of the people is the voice of God".
A former Twitter member of staff, who left the company recently, told the BBC that Mr Musk was "showing himself to be the incompetent fool we all knew he was".
Others are thought to be Oracle co-founder and Mr Musk's friend, Larry Ellison, sovereign wealth fund Qatar Holding, and Saudi Arabia's Prince Alwaleed bin Talal.
Mr Musk's private jet appears to be on its way back from the World Cup in Qatar, where he was pictured at the final next to Donald Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner on Sunday.
Dan Ives, senior equity analyst at Wedbush Securities, told the BBC before the poll closed that he believed the vote would ultimately lead to the ending of Mr Musk's reign as Twitter chief executive, and that he would probably name a new temporary CEO "in the next 24 hours".
The UN tweeted that media freedom is "not a toy", while the EU threatened Twitter with sanctions.
Earlier on Sunday, Twitter said it would shut down accounts solely designed to promote other social media platforms.
However, Mr Musk later tweeted that major policy changes for the site would be voted on in the future.
Mr Ives said he believed Mr Musk had realised he "cannot balance" being the boss of Twitter as well as his Tesla and space rocket firm SpaceX.
"The biggest problem is the more controversy he creates, advertisers leave and they run for the hills and that's 90% of revenue for Twitter," he said.
Russ Mould, investment director at AJ Bell, added investors at Tesla would be "closely watching" Mr Musk's poll.
"Given how much of a distraction Musk's tenure at Twitter has become, shareholders in the electric vehicle manufacturer will be breathing a big sigh of relief if he steps back from Twitter and gets back to the day job at Tesla," he said.
"For someone who sets so much store by work ethic, Musk sure seems to spend a lot of time on social media.
With Tesla shares having more than halved year-to-date, Musk needs to roll up his sleeves and get his main business back on the road."
Tesla's share price rose nearly 3% at around $154 each on US stock markets in early trading on Monday. However, the shares have lost nearly 60% in value this year.
Campaigner Charlotte Gage says that the outdoor adverts you see on billboards and bus stops should all be removed.
Ms Gage is the network director of UK pressure group Adfree Cities, which wants a complete ban on all outdoor corporate advertising.
The Taliban have announced the closure of universities to women in Afghanistan, according to a letter by the higher education minister.
One Kabul University student told the BBC she had been crying since she heard the news.
Three months ago thousands of girls and women sat university entrance exams across Afghanistan.
Responding to the latest ban, a female university student told the BBC she thought the Taliban were scared of women and their power.
Afghanistan's education sector was badly affected after the Taliban takeover and there has been an exodus of trained academics after the withdrawal of US-led forces last year.
Afghanistan's economy has been largely dependent on foreign aid in recent decades, but aid agencies have partly - and in some cases fully - withdrawn support to the education sector after the Taliban refused to allow girls into secondary schools.
The US and other Western countries have made improvements to female education in Afghanistan a prior condition for the formal recognition of the Taliban government.
In November, the authorities banned women from parks in the capital Kabul, claiming Islamic laws were not being followed there.
In March this year, the Taliban government did not deliver on its commitment to open secondary schools for girls.
One female student predicted it a few weeks ago. "One day we will wake up and they will say girls are banned from universities," she had said.
From conversations with Taliban leaders over the past year, it is evident that there is disagreement within the Taliban on the issue of girls' education.
Off the record, some Taliban members have repeatedly said they are hopeful and working to try and ensure girls get an education.
Girls were allowed to sit for graduation exams for secondary schools two weeks ago, in 31 of Afghanistan's 34 provinces, even though they haven't been allowed to be in school for more than a year.
A young Australian researcher was having a late-morning drink in a Canberra pub in 1971 when he received a phone call that changed his life.
One of Australia's most powerful politicians - future prime minister Gough Whitlam - was on the line.
Mr Whitlam, then opposition leader, asked the China expert whether he would join him for a historic diplomatic mission to the country.
That moment would help set the ball rolling for Australia to forge diplomatic ties with China. It achieved that 50 years ago - on 21 December 1972.
The trip was a risky political move for Mr Whitlam.
In 1971 the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) was forcing its way on to the world stage amid the Cold War, seeking improved foreign relationships and a seat at the United Nations.
Australia was one such nation. China remained a "deeply divisive" issue there, Dr FitzGerald says.
At the time, just 3% of its population was born outside Australia or Europe - and many people were suspicious of other cultures. The "red menace" of communism was also a great concern. Such fears intersected over China.
For many, it resonated when Australia's conservative government spoke of the threat posed by the "downward thrust of China", Dr FitzGerald says.
But even within Mr Whitlam's Labor Party, many regarded any step towards China as "political death" domestically.
Mr Whitlam's path to China may have seemed inevitable, but Dr FitzGerald's was somewhat of a fluke.
He didn't choose to study China. It all snowballed from the moment he was assigned Chinese language classes on his first day as a foreign service cadet. And by the time Mr Whitlam came calling, Dr FitzGerald had left for a career in academia.
Dr FitzGerald recalls constantly explaining Australian sense of humour to "mystified" Chinese officials.
But the real goal of the mission was to meet then Chinese Premier Zhou Enlai. It was never clear if that would happen - until Chinese officials arrived at the Australians' hotel late one night and began ushering people into cars.
When the much-anticipated meeting began, Mr Zhou surprised the delegation by inviting journalists to stay in the room.
The meeting transformed Australia's feelings towards China.
"All that stood between us and diplomatic relations at that stage was the election during December of 1972."
Mr Whitlam did win the election, ending 23 years of conservative rule. Within weeks, on 21 December, he recognised the People's Republic of China.
Soon after, he sent Dr FitzGerald to Beijing as Australia's first ambassador to the country.
Mr Whitlam's hope was that Australia would build a relationship with China that was comparable to those it had with other major powers, Dr FitzGerald says.
But last month Prime Minister Anthony Albanese - who was elected in May - became the first Australian leader to have a face-to-face meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping since 2016.
Another such meeting will take place on Wednesday when Australia's Foreign Minister Penny Wong meets her Chinese counterpart, Wang Yi, in Beijing. It marks the first visit by an Australian minister to China's capital in more than three years.
Dr FitzGerald says the China of today seems more "dictatorially minded" and "assertive", but he still thinks there are lessons in what transpired 50 years ago.
Next year will be warmer than this one, and one of the hottest on record, the UK Met Office is forecasting.
Health bosses have warned they cannot guarantee patient safety during strikes by thousands of ambulance workers in England and Wales on Wednesday.
But NHS England says emergency care will continue to be provided.
No industrial action is taking place in Northern Ireland and Scotland, and there will be no strikes in the east of England or the Isle of Wight.
Mr Barclay met union representatives on Tuesday afternoon but there were no discussions around pay - only what care would still be provided during the strike.
Hospitals in China appear to be filling up amid concerns about a fresh Covid-19 wave hitting the country, the World Health Organization (WHO) says.
Dr Michael Ryan says intensive care units (ICU) are busy despite officials saying numbers are "relatively low".
China figures show no-one died of Covid on Wednesday but there is scepticism about the disease's real impact.
A post-Brexit farm-subsidy scheme designed to reward landowners in England for environmental work is going forward after a controversial review.
Two of the three main elements of the payment system known as environmental land-management schemes (Elms) are to be retained, the UK government says.
A third proposed scheme - which would have rewarded farmers for creating space for nature - is to be abandoned.
Farmers will have to wait until the new year to see how much they will be paid.
The decision to review Elms had angered farmers, who wanted to know the details on what work would be rewarded, and conservationists, who feared its environmental focus would be weakened.
Speaking at a Country, Land and Business Association (CLA) conference, Environment Secretary Therese Coffey said the review was "now complete" and the government "moving ahead with the transition".
Designed to replace the European Union's common agricultural policy (CAP), Elms represent the biggest shake-up of farm policy in England for 40 years.
The Elms system largely focuses the award of subsidies around the environmental work farmers can undertake.
Ms Coffey said: "The choice is not producing food or doing environmental schemes.
It's about making space for nature and that must go alongside sustainable food production.
But there is frustration among farmers at the continued lack of clarity about how much will be paid for which scheme.
Ms Coffey said more details would be given "early in the new year".
The local nature-recovery scheme would have paid farmers for actions such as creating habitats for breeding birds or restoring wetlands.
And Ms Coffey said she hoped the improved-stewardship scheme would achieve "the same ambitious outcome".
But National Trust land and nature director Harry Bowell said the government was "watering down" its commitment to the natural world.
"A return to countryside stewardship, where farmers are paid to look after the environment as a supplement to their core business interests, with little tailoring to local needs, risks a clunky retrofitting of previous policies rather than securing the world-leading overhaul that farmers were promised," he said.
"The government mustn't abandon the ambitious goals of its local nature-recovery scheme, which farmers have poured hours into making a success, and which puts a healthy local environment at the heart of farming.
The Wildlife Trusts policy and public affair director Joan Edwards said: "Today, the secretary of state confirmed the government's commitment for the agricultural transition to help tackle the nature and climate crises - but time is short to meet the government's targets.
Any further delays in these farming schemes will make the task even harder.
The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB) said "warm and ambitious words" were welcome - but "now we need the action to match them".
"[The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs] Defra needs to clearly set out how they will build on countryside-stewardship scheme to ensure it is capable of unleashing the power of farmers to help tackle the nature and climate crises," it said.
The National Farmers' Union (NFU) vice-president David Exwood said: "We remain committed to working with Defra to improve its Elm schemes so farmers are able to continue producing sustainable climate-friendly food, as well as delivering for the environment.
Batteries thrown in household rubbish bins cause about 700 fires every year in dustcarts and waste-processing centres, local authorities say.
Lithium-ion batteries can explode if damaged or crushed.
The Environmental Services Association says resulting fires cost fire services and waste operators some £158m a year.
Non-profit organisation Material Focus, which surveyed local authorities, runs an online search tool to help people find their nearest recycling point.
Found in small, rechargeable devices such as toothbrushes, toys, phones and laptops, lithium-ion batteries have become more powerful in recent years.
Smaller, frequently used and cheaper devices - even some musical greeting cards - often have "hidden batteries".
Ben Johnson, from the Environmental Services Association (ESA), told BBC News "more and more people were putting devices containing these batteries in with household rubbish" or mixing them with other recycling.
"That causes a real problem, because they have a tendency - when damaged - to explode or ignite," he said.
"And when you put them in general rubbish or recycling, they're likely to be crushed, compacted, smashed or they might get wet.
And of course they're then in the presence of other flammable material like plastic, paper and card and that can lead to quite big fires.
The main type of rechargeable battery in portable consumer electronics, they consist of two electrodes divided by a separator that allows charged particles - lithium ions - to flow, through a solvent, from one to the other.
But if the electrodes make direct contact with each other, it can cause all the charged particles to suddenly discharge in an explosion, which, as the chemicals inside the battery are flammable, can quickly cause a fire.
National Fire Chiefs Council waste-fires lead Mark Andrews said the problem was growing as people used and disposed of more electronic devices.
"We urge people to recycle electricals and batteries and not to dispose of them with general household waste," he said.
"These fires can be challenging for fire services to deal with, have a significant impact on local communities and present a real risk to staff working on lorries and waste plants.
"Everyone can do their bit and prevent fires by ensuring they dispose of electrical items correctly.
Laura Fisher, from waste-management company FCC Environment, said: "The best thing is for people to bring any batteries to their local recycling centre or to any major supermarket - most of them tend to have a recycling bin for batteries there.
Fire safety experts and electrical-waste campaigners are also calling for clearer rules on the safe disposal of batteries - including how to recycle them.
Half of the free range turkeys produced for Christmas in the UK have been culled or have died due to bird flu, an industry chief has told MPs.
Mr Griffiths said costs to the industry were "potentially enormous".
He was speaking to the UK parliamentary committee on the environment, food and rural affairs.
Farmers say they are not sure if there will be price rises but they expect supply issues regarding free range turkeys as a result.
Also speaking to MPs, Paul Kelly, the owner of a turkey hatchery that supplies farms around the UK, told the committee: "I think it will just be a supply issue rather than the prices being hiked.
"But there will be a big, big shortage of British free range turkeys on the shelves this year.
Both the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) and the British Poultry Council stress the issue is with free range turkeys, and that there are no issues with supplies of other birds.
A spokesperson for Defra said it had worked closely with farmers to put infection measures in place to stop the spread and that a recent levelling off in outbreak numbers suggested recent housing orders were having an impact.
Mr Griffiths of the British Poultry council said about 36% of poultry farms in the country were now covered by some form of control, whether they've been affected or not.
"So it's huge and the costs for industry and food production are potentially enormous," he said.
The highly infectious H5N1 strain of the disease is responsible for the deaths of hundreds of thousands of wild birds around the world and millions of domesticated ones.
Wild birds can spread the flu to poultry and captive birds when they migrate to the UK.
The mandatory order to keep birds indoors in England followed regional measures introduced in Norfolk, Suffolk and parts of Essex.
A national housing order has also been introduced in Northern Ireland.
It has not been introduced in Wales or Scotland, where the situation is being monitored.
Mr Kelly, the turkey farmer, said three of his premises had been affected.
He said the outbreak had been particularly hard on small-scale turkey producers.
"One guy I know in Norfolk, a wonderful little business.
His whole flock's gone and he hasn't got a business," he said.
Recently introduced measures allow farmers to kill and freeze turkey, geese and ducks and sell them as fresh closer to Christmas.
The change is supposed to help producers avoid the risks of losing their flocks in a cull or to the disease.
A huge meteorite that fell to Earth contains two minerals never seen before on our planet, scientists say.
Canadian researchers said the rock was found in rural Somalia two years ago, but locals believe it is much older.
They call the stone Nightfall, and say it is documented in poems, songs and dances that stretch back five generations.
The official names for the new minerals are elaliite and elkinstantonite.
They were identified by scientists at the University of Alberta who looked at a 70g fragment from the 15-tonne meteorite, which is said to be the ninth-biggest to reach our planet and is about 90% iron and nickel.
The name "elaliite" honours the fact that the meteorite was unearthed in the district of El Ali in Somalia, and "elkinstantonite" is named after Nasa expert Lindy Elkins-Tanton.
"Lindy has done a lot of work on how the cores of planets form, how these iron nickel cores form, and the closest analogue we have are iron meteorites.
So it made sense to name a mineral after her and recognise her contributions to science," said Prof Chris Herd who curates the University of Alberta's meteorite collection.
A third, as-yet unidentified mineral, is being analysed by the university's researchers who now hope to get their hands on more of the meteorite - not only to see what else they might discover, but also how it could be used on Earth.
"Whenever there's a new material that's known, material scientists are interested too because of the potential uses in a wide range of things in society," Prof Herd said of the "exciting" research.
Three Chinese astronauts have taken off for the Tiangong space station to make its first in-orbit crew handover.
The fresh crew will live on the station for six months, taking over from three colleagues who arrived in June.
There will be a week-long handover period, in part to trial the station's ability to house six astronauts.
The new crew lifted off on Tuesday in the Shenzhou-15 spacecraft or "Divine Vessel" from the Jiuquan Satellite Launch Centre in the Gobi Desert in north-west China.
It is the last of 11 missions required to assemble the station that is expected to operate for around a decade and run experiments in near-zero gravity.
The outgoing crew is expected to return to Earth early next month.
A spokesperson for the China Manned Space Administration said the new crew would focus on installing equipment and facilities around the space station.
Construction is expected to be complete by the end of the year.
China's space programme has previously landed robotic rovers on Mars and the Moon, and it was the third country to put humans in orbit.
Dr Christian Feichtinger, executive director of the International Astronautical Federation, told Chinese state television channel CCTV he thought "the world is actually watching" China's growing space capabilities.
The mission has offered Chinese citizens a chance to celebrate, as the country faces ongoing Covid lockdowns and protests.
"Long live the motherland!" many wrote on social media.
It is his first time in space since then.
Over the next decade of the Tiangong's operation, it is expected China will launch two crewed missions to the station each year.
China has opened the selection process for astronauts for future missions to applicants from the "special administrative regions" of Macau and Hong Kong, who have previously been excluded.
The US space agency's Orion capsule has reached a key milestone on its demonstration mission around the Moon.
On Monday, it moved some 430,000km (270,000 miles) beyond the Earth - the furthest any spacecraft designed to carry humans has travelled.
The ship is uncrewed on this occasion, but if it completes the current flight without incident, astronauts will be on the next outing in two years' time.
Nasa is planning a series of ever more complex missions with Orion.
They're part of the agency's Artemis programme, which seeks to return people to the lunar surface after a gap of 50 years.
Monday's milestone marks the middle point of the mission.
"This halfway point teaches us to number our days so that we can get a heart of wisdom," said Mike Sarafin, Nasa's Artemis mission manager.
"The halfway point affords us an opportunity to step back and then look at what our margins are and where we could be a little smarter to buy down risk and understand the spacecraft's performance for crewed flight on the very next mission.
Orion has been streaming back some spectacular video of its journey.
Just before reaching the record distance, it captured the Moon moving in front of the Earth.
The capsule was launched from Florida's Kennedy Space Center on 16 November on a 26-day mission designed to stretch its systems and make sure it is safe to carry astronauts.
Orion is being pushed through space by a service module provided by the European Space Agency (Esa).
This vehicle incorporates the big thrusters needed to make manoeuvres.
The Esa module delivered two key engine burns last week to get Orion into a big loop around the Moon known as a Distant Retrograde Orbit.
It's called "distant" because the path takes Orion a long way from the Moon's surface (61,000km; 38,000 miles) and "retrograde" because it sends the capsule in the opposite direction to the lunar body's direction of travel.
It will require two further manoeuvres in the coming days to put the capsule on the correct trajectory to come home.
The spacecraft is due to splash down in the Pacific Ocean off San Diego in California on 11 December.
Controllers have been delighted with the performance to date.
Orion, with its shepherding Esa module, has used much less fuel than expected.
It's also generated more power than anticipated, while also being very frugal with its energy consumption.
There have been some small technical niggles, but "none of the anomalies, or funnies, that are out there are of consequence", said Mr Sarafin.
Controllers did lose communications with the capsule for 45 minutes on one occasion but this was determined to be an issue related to the configuration of equipment on Earth.
It went out to 400,171km (248,655 miles) from Earth as its crew fought to navigate their way home following an explosion in their capsule's service module.
One of the manikins on board Orion has been nicknamed Commander Moonikin Campos in honour of Arturo Campos, a Nasa engineer who played a critical role in helping to get the troubled Apollo 13 back.
"Of course, Artemis builds on Apollo," Nasa administrator Bill Nelson said.
"Not only are we going farther and coming home faster, but Artemis is paving the way to live and work in deep space in a hostile environment, to invent, to create, and ultimately to go on with humans to Mars.
The world is going through its worst-ever outbreak of bird flu.
The highly infectious H5N1 strain of the disease is responsible for the deaths of hundreds of thousands of wild birds and millions of domestic ones.
Bird flu is an infectious disease of poultry and wild birds that has been around for a century.
It usually flares up in autumn before fading away.
"It originated amongst ducks in Europe and Asia, and spread to other birds," says Paul Digard, a professor of virology in the Roslin Institute at Edinburgh University.
The H5N1 virus, which is the most prevalent strain now, was first reported in China in 1996 and has broken out sporadically ever since.
However, this year the virus has persisted for much longer than usual.
The H5N1 strain is deadly and can spread through entire flocks of domestic birds within a matter of days, through birds' droppings and saliva, or through contaminated feed and water.
The current wave of bird flu is the worst one ever in Europe, and in the US.
"A hundred and sixty million domestic birds worldwide have been killed by this virus, or have had to be culled by farmers to contain it," says Professor Munir Iqbal of the UK's Pirbright Institute, which specialises in animal welfare.
"This includes 100 million domestic birds in the US and Europe.
In western European countries, it has led to egg shortages in the shops and fears of a turkey shortage at Christmas.
Record avian flu outbreak sees mass cull in UK, EU.
More wild birds than ever before have been killed by bird flu this year - with sea birds being especially hard hit.
The current virus has affected 80 different bird species," says Professor Iqbal.
"For example, it has killed 40% of the skua population in Scotland, and 2,000 Dalmatian pelicans in Greece.
This "huge outbreak" has also spread into species such as seals and foxes, says veterinary expert Dr Louise Moncla of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, US.
"These outbreaks began in Europe, then spread to North America, and unlike past outbreaks, have not died out," she says.
We are in the middle of an "unprecedented wildlife disease outbreak, the breadth and scope of which is staggering", says Dr Rebecca Poulson of the University of Georgia, US.
Scientists are unsure why this outbreak is so much worse than others.
It may be that the virus has mutated to enable it to spread more readily from bird to bird, or to hang around longer in the environment.
Dr Nancy Beerens, bird flu expert at Wageningen Bioveterinary Research in the Netherlands, which analyses suspected bird flu samples, says the virus may now be ubiquitous in wild birds.
"As the virus now has infected many wild bird species, it becomes unlikely that it will disappear again from the bird population," she says.
China has been vaccinating its domestic poultry flocks.
However, other countries avoid this because it is hard to judge which birds have been made immune by the vaccine and which ones have not - and so the meat and eggs from vaccinated flocks cannot be sold abroad.
"There are strict export controls when a country decides to vaccinate," says Dr Maurice Pitesky of the School of Veterinary Medicine, University of California, Davis.
Governments in EU countries and North America have instead generally told their farmers to cull all the poultry in any flock in which bird flu has broken out.
Farmers in the UK and France have also been told to bring free range poultry flocks indoors, to stop them being infected by wild birds.
Despite the commercial drawbacks of vaccinating poultry, governments in France and the Netherlands have begun trials of vaccines to try and bring the bird flu epidemic under control.
In some instances, humans have caught bird flu when they have come into close contact with infected birds.
"The current strain of H5N1 currently seems to be low risk for this," says Prof Digard.
However, he says: "We need proper surveillance of how far it is spreading, by monitoring wild birds and getting reports from vets dealing with domestic animals.
Airline passengers in the European Union (EU) will soon be able to use their phones to full effect in the sky.
The European Commission ruled airlines can provide 5G technology on board planes, alongside slower mobile data.
This could mean flyers will no longer be required to put their phone on airplane mode - though the specifics of how it will be implemented are unclear.
This will mean people can use all their phone's features mid-flight - enabling calls as well as data-heavy apps that stream music and video.
Thierry Breton, EU Commissioner for the Internal Market, said the plan would "enable innovative services for people" and help European companies grow.
"The sky is no longer a limit when it comes to possibilities offered by super-fast, high-capacity connectivity," he said.
The EU Commission has reserved certain frequency bands for aircraft since 2008, allowing some services to offer mid-air internet access.
But this service has been historically slow, as it relied on equipment to connect people via a satellite between the aeroplane and the ground.
The new system will be able to take advantage of the much faster download speeds provided by 5G, which according to mobile network EE can be over 100Mbps - enabling a film to be downloaded in just a few minutes.
Dai Whittingham, chief executive of the UK Flight Safety Committee, told the BBC that airplane mode was historically important due to a lack of knowledge about how mobile devices affect aircraft.
"There was a concern they could interfere with automatic flight control systems," he said.
"What has been found with experience is the risk of interference is very small.
The recommendation has always been that once you are in flight, devices should be in in airplane mode.
There has been a concern in the US that 5G frequencies could interfere with flights, and even potentially lead to erroneous altitude measurements.
But Mr Whittingham said this is not an issue in the UK and the EU.
"There is much less prospect of interference," he said, "We have a different set of frequencies for 5G, and there are lower power settings than those that have been allowed in the US.
"The travelling public wants 5G.
The regulators will open up that possibility, but there will be steps that will be taken to ensure that whatever they do is safe.
The Civil Aviation Authority - the regulator responsible for the safety of aircraft within the UK - has been approached by the BBC for comment.
Kanye West has been suspended from Twitter and accused of "inciting violence" over offensive tweets - just two months after his last ban.
The US rapper, who now goes by the name Ye, posted a series of erratic tweets - one of which appeared to show a symbol combining a swastika and a Jewish star.
Twitter's new boss Elon Musk was asked by one user to "fix Kanye".
West had "violated our rule against incitement to violence", Musk tweeted.
"Account will be suspended," Musk wrote in a Twitter post.
Also on Thursday, during an interview with US conspiracy theorist Alex Jones and with his face covered in a mask, West praised Nazi leader Adolf Hitler and ranted about sin, pornography and the devil.
The head of the UK's Holocaust Educational Trust described West's comments as "repulsive and sickening".
"These comments mixed with his high profile and huge following have dangerous consequences," chief executive Karen Pollock said.
In recent months West has caused controversy with a series of antisemitic and racist remarks - leading to clothing giant Adidas cutting ties with the rapper.
West was initially locked out of his Twitter and Instagram accounts after posting antisemitic messages in October.
Both platforms removed West's posts - which accused rapper Diddy of being controlled by Jewish people - saying the star had violated policies on hate speech.
These posts came in response to a backlash against his show at Paris Fashion Week, where he wore a T-shirt carrying the slogan "White Lives Matter".
The Anti-Defamation League in the US branded his phrase "hate speech" and attributed it to white supremacists, who began using it in 2015 in response to the Black Lives Matter movement.
Earlier this year, West was suspended from Instagram for 24 hours in March after using a racial slur in reference to comedian Trevor Noah.
In 2018, singer Will.
His latest Twitter ban comes hours after the right-wing social media platform Parler - which styles itself as a "free speech" alternative to mainstream platforms - said West could no longer buy the firm.
In a statement, Parlement Technologies said: "The company has mutually agreed with Ye to terminate the intent of sale.
The firm - which runs the much smaller platform, popular with conservatives and the far right - said the decision was made in mid-November.
"Parler will continue to pursue future opportunities for growth and the evolution of the platform for our vibrant community," the firm said in its statement.
Musk took control over Twitter in October and immediately embarked on a series of radical changes within the social media giant - including lifting the bans on controversial accounts.
He has clarified that he had no role in bringing West back on Twitter, saying the account was restored before he acquired the social media platform.
West was diagnosed with bipolar disorder years ago and has publicly spoken about his challenges with his mental health.
However, medical experts and people who share West's condition have warned that mental health problems do not go hand-in-hand with antisemitism.
A Scottish-led project to develop a hydrogen fuel cell-powered heavy goods vehicle has been awarded £30m from a government and industry initiative.
Glasgow-based HVS aims to develop a "clean and affordable" cab and tractor unit to replace equivalent diesel-powered vehicles currently used across the UK and Europe.
The funding is coming from the Advanced Propulsion Centre (APC) programme.
It supports the development of low and zero-carbon automotive technology.
HVS is among five companies taking a share of a £73m pot raised between the UK government and the automobile industry to develop clean transport technology.
HVS will receive a £15m grant from the government, with a further £15m coming from industry.
Hydrogen propulsion is seen as central to decarbonising HGVs, as battery packs used by smaller electric vehicles at the scale required would be prohibitively heavy and have lengthy charging times.
HVS chief executive Jawad Khursheed said its plans to decarbonise heavy-duty transport in the UK had reached "a major milestone" with the help of the APC grant.
He added: "We have successfully produced our first driving fuel cell technology demonstrator vehicle and are on track to deliver the UK's first-to-market hydrogen fuel cell-powered HGV.
UK Business Secretary Grant Shapps said: "Our automotive industry is a world-leader, creating jobs whether in Essex, Somerset or Glasgow.
"Seizing the potential from new technologies will be a key part of its future success, while also making our roads cleaner, greener and more affordable.
The government has committed £211m to battery research and innovation through the Faraday Battery Challenge.
The funding will be delivered by UK Research and Innovation, with support from the Faraday Institution, Innovate UK and the UK Battery Industrialisation Centre.
In a weird way, a rock gig first led me to question the UK's 5G provision.
I was at a sold-out concert at London's O2 arena, had 5G reception on my phone but was unable to share the moment on social media.
I thought that was odd - 5G was designed to cope with lots of devices using it simultaneously, something its predecessors 4G and 3G struggled with as anyone who has tried to use their phone in a crowded place such as a festival or football match will probably have noticed.
A few days later, trying to use Google Maps, with 5G on my phone and apparently decent reception, I received an error message - the signal was too poor for the app to function.
I started taking screenshots of these messages and ended up with quite a library.
Eventually, I shared some online - and then, other frustrated 5G users contacted me.
We had various handsets and network providers but were all experiencing similar problems.
Patrick, from Bristol, told me he could not refresh social-media apps, load maps or check Amazon order statuses while using 5G.
"It's really frustrating," he said.
"5G was promised to be incredibly fast across the country.
And if anything, it's worse than what we had already.
Jon, from Yorkshire, said he could not access any data via 5G during his train commute to Leeds, which affected his job.
"It makes my phone pretty worthless," he said.
A woman from Manchester said any 5G coverage appearing was "still a surprise".
There were many others.
And in Glasgow city centre, some colleagues and I found the 5G speed half that of the 4G, according to a basic speed checker.
The industry insists, still only three years in to a 10-year rollout plan, everything is fine.
But it has faced several setbacks.
With a higher frequency than 4G, some say it is harmful - although, tests have found the opposite.
Gareth Elliott, of the industry trade association Mobile UK, said local objections and the need to obtain planning permission were obstacles to expanding national coverage.
"We are working with communities, working with local authorities and we do aim to extend 5G coverage as quickly as possible," he said.
"The closer you live or work to a mast, the better signal you have.
In 2020, UK mobile networks were ordered to strip out kit made by Chinese technology company Huawei from all 5G infrastructure, after it was deemed a national security risk.
The deadlines for completing this were recently extended.
The UK's major networks, EE, O2, Three and Vodafone, told me they were on track to meet them, happy with the progress of their rollouts, their customers generally satisfied with the service - and people tended not to notice when networks were working efficiently.
But analyst Ian Fogg, from the company OpenSignal, said the 5G experience had been oversold by over-enthusiastic marketeers.
Coverage was generally better in cities and operators varied, he said - but, overall, it was still an improvement on 4G.
"Companies talking up 5G are often thinking not just about what's here now but what we'll be having in 18 months, two or three years time.
So there's that expectation of, 'This is what it's going to do.
CCS Insight chief analyst Ben Wood agrees.
"The networks need to be very careful that there is not a huge gap between the rhetoric and the reality of the experience," he said.
The Department for Digital Culture, Media and Sport, which oversees mobile networks, and Ofcom, the regulator, declined to be interviewed - but Ofcom did tell me only about 10% of people in the UK currently owned 5G-enabled phones.
Most new devices do now work on 5G - but people are holding on to older handsets for longer.
And there is another issue.
"We are using something called non-standalone 5G, which is the very first version of 5G," Mr Wood said.
"It only delivers the 5G signal from the handset to the tower.
Everything behind that is still 4G.
"The goal is to get to a fully integrated end-to-end 5G network - but in the UK, no networks have deployed that yet.
And this could have a significant impact on the experience.
The aim is for 5G to be the infrastructure that will one day underpin driverless cars communicating with each other and street furniture such as signs and traffic lights.
It can reliably connect hospitals with ambulances, to share patient data and treatment advice as they travel.
And it enables better virtual- and mixed-reality environments for teaching, training and socialising.
At the 5G and 6G Innovation Centre, at Surrey University, I tried out a demo using a basic robot.
With 5G connectivity, the robot responded immediately to my commands, via an Xbox controller, for it to move.
But when we switched down to 4G, the momentary delay between me touching the controller and the robot receiving the instruction - this is called latency - resulted in drama.
It faltered, and then fell rather heavily, taking me down with it.
The difference between the two was, quite literally, striking.
But it would be - there was a 5G mast directly outside the window.
Like many African doctors, Peter Mativo had to travel overseas to complete his training.
In 2007 he left Kenya for Bangalore to pursue his goal of becoming a neurologist.
After 18 months in India, he returned to Kenya and now works at the Aga Khan University Hospital in Nairobi.
"Most of us train in India, as Africa is not a developed continent.
We have a very poor economy with no medical infrastructure in place nor specialised training," he says.
"I would have never been able to get a specialised degree if I would have not opted for India," Mr Mativo says.
India is keen to strengthen such ties with Africa.
It has identified the healthcare sector as one area where trade between the continents can flourish.
So young African doctors are encouraged to finish their training in India, meanwhile Indian healthcare firms are expanding all over Africa.
"The African market is a natural fit for Indian pharmaceutical companies, as India is the largest provider of generic medicine in the world," says Nisht Dubey.
Generic drugs made in India can sell at a quarter of the price of a branded equivalent, which makes them a popular choice in less well-off parts of the world.
"There is a big gap between demand and supply of medicines in Africa, with a huge disparity among rich and poor," says Mr Dubey.
It imports medicine and medical products from all over the world into Kenya.
Goodstrain's warehouse and corporate offices are in Nairobi, but Mr Dubey wants it to expand across East Africa.
"Africa is the only pharmaceutical market where genuinely high growth is still achievable," says Mr Dubey, who is originally from Uttar Pradesh in northern India.
But getting a firm going in Kenya has not been easy.
Goodstrain's very first shipment to Kenya was held up at customs for weeks - a major setback for the young firm.
Mr Dubey says they were not ready for the web of regulations covering imports.
Now a third party, which specialises in clearing imports, handles that for them.
Africure Pharmaceuticals, has gone one step further than Goodstrain, by manufacturing pharmaceuticals in Africa.
The company, only founded in 2017, already has nine manufacturing facilities in Africa, employing 300 people across Cameroon, Namibia, Botswana and Côte d'Ivoire, with plans to build plants in Ethiopia and Zimbabwe.
Africure's factories make medications to treat pain, fever, inflammation, malaria, diabetes andhypertension, as well as a wide range of antibiotics.
"Africa over the years has been dependent on imports of medication from Europe, India, and China, which has resulted in the draining of precious foreign exchange, non-creation of job opportunities, and suffering the vagaries of supply and demand," says Sinhue Noronha, founder and chief executive of Africure Pharmaceuticals.
Originally from Mumbai, Mr Noronha, hopes his firm will help tackle some of the problems in African healthcare.
"Our primary objective is to solve the persistent issues such as affordability, availability, low quality, technological dependence, and reliance on imports.
"All of our plants and distribution setups are engaged primarily to provide an uninterrupted supply of essential medicines.
Mr Noronha says that Indian firms have a head start over rivals from elsewhere in the world.
"Indian manufacturers and importers are able to understand the African market because of our large diaspora presence in Africa.
Even with those connections, Mr Noronha, has found building a business in Africa a bumpy experience.
"The biggest challenge is political instability.
I may get a permission today to set up a manufacturing unit, and tomorrow the government or the health minister may resign.
One has to be ready for any kind of eventuality," he says.
He also says that personal safety is a consideration.
"Security is another big concern.
We Indians have to be very careful," he says.
Broadly, Indian healthcare firms have a good reputation in Africa, but that hard won image has recently suffered significant damage.
Police in The Gambia are investigating the deaths of 66 children, which have been linked to four brands of imported Indian cough syrup.
In October, the World Health Organization (WHO) issued a global alert over the cough syrups - warning they could be linked to acute kidney injuries and the children's deaths in July, August and September.
"The Gambia incident is an aberration and we should feel bad about it," says Udaya Bhaskar, director general of Pharmexcil, which promotes the export of Indian pharmaceuticals.
"This incident will certainly be a dent in our exports and the image of Indian pharma," he says.
But he thinks the reputational damage will be short-lived.
"The important factor is that Africa is very dependent on other countries and India produces very good quality medicine, so the Gambia impact will be short-term.
Back in Nairobi, Dr Mativo says the problem is the lack of testing facilities in Africa.
"The Gambia incident is sad.
The biggest problem is we are not financially strong, nor do we have facilities which can check the standards of medicine supplied to us.
He would like to see more products produced locally.
"In Africa most of the population cannot afford branded medicine.
Puerto Rican singer-songwriter Bad Bunny has been named the world's most streamed artist on Spotify for a third consecutive year.
No other artist has previously achieved that feat on the Spotify Wrapped list, an annual marketing campaign by the streaming company.
The release of a new Taylor Swift album saw the pop star take second place.
Rounding out the list are Canadian hitmakers Drake and The Weeknd, as well as K-pop group BTS.
Spotify has released its most-streamed list every December since 2016, providing users with insight into which artists, songs and music genres were most popular around the world.
Spotify Wrapped also give users information about their own listening habits over the past year.
The campaign has grown in popularity with users sharing their own lists on social media.
The 28-year-old artist topped the Billboard 200 music chart with his fifth studio album Un Verano Sin Ti, the first all-Spanish-language album to reach that milestone.
The album - which is triple-platinum certified after it sold more than three million copies - was also Spotify's most-streamed album of the year, ahead of Harry's House by Harry Styles and SOUR by Olivia Rodrigo.
Bad Bunny has been widely credited with raising the profile of Spanish language music in the US and elsewhere.
Upon the release of Un Verano in May, it racked up more than 350 million official streams in its first week, the most ever for a Latin album.
Earlier this month, the Puerto Rican hitmaker also broke ground as the first Latin artist ever to be nominated for a Grammy Award in the Best Album category.
He is also nominated at the same time for a Latin Grammy in the same category.
Spotify celebrated his latest accomplishment by turning its heart button on Bunny's artist page into the singer's custom red-heart icon.
TikTok is hosting dozens of videos that glorify violence by Russia's Wagner Group of mercenaries and they have been viewed more than a billion times, according to a new report.
Wagner has sent mercenaries into Ukraine in big numbers.
US-based NewsGuard, which focuses on online misinformation, says some of the videos appear to show the execution of a former Russian mercenary.
TikTok has said it will act against any content violating its policies.
NewsGuard said it had identified 160 videos on the short-video platform that "allude to, show, or glorify acts of violence" by the mercenary group, founded by Yevgeny Prigozhin, a close ally of President Vladimir Putin.
Fourteen of those videos showed full or partial footage of the apparent killing of former Russian mercenary Yevgeny Nuzhin which saw high engagement within days of being uploaded last month, it said.
Analysts said one video of the murder was viewed at least 900,000 times before it was taken down.
TikTok is owned by China-based firm ByteDance.
Nuzhin had been serving a jail term for murder but described how he had been recruited by Wagner and was then captured by the Ukrainian military.
He told Ukrainian journalists he had switched sides voluntarily and denounced the mercenary group.
It is thought he was then part of a prisoner exchange and within days a gruesome video involving a sledgehammer was posted on a Wagner-linked channel on the Telegram messaging app.
NewsGuard found that TikTok's algorithm appeared to push users towards violent Wagner Group content.
When an analyst searched for the term "Wagner", TikTok's search bar suggested searches for "Wagner execution" and "Wagner sledgehammer".
The same search in Russian resulted in the suggestions "Wagner PMC", "Wagner sledgehammer" and "Wagner orchestra".
Wagner refers to its fighters as "musicians".
NewsGuard also found that videos could be found on TikTok showing another Wagner murder involving an army deserter in Syria in 2017 and that they had reached millions of users.
The online analysis group said it had also identified other music videos on the platform that advocated violence against Ukrainians, including calls to kill Ukrainians claiming they were "Nazis".
Responding to the report, a TikTok spokesperson said there was "no place for hateful or violent content on our platform".
Many of the videos identified by NewsGuard were no longer available on the platform by Thursday.
"Our Community Guidelines clearly outline that we do not allow people to use our platform to threaten or incite violence, or share attacks or slurs based on people's nationality or other protected characteristics.
We will take action on content found to violate these policies," TikTok said.
Wagner started out as a shadowy Russian mercenary group and in 2014 went to eastern Ukraine to help Russian proxy forces oust the Ukrainian military.
It has also been active in Syria and several African countries, and has repeatedly been accused of war crimes and human rights abuses.
Last week the European Parliament called for it to be added to the EU's list of terrorist organisations.
For years Yevgeny Prigozhin denied he had anything to do with Wagner, until September when he finally admitted founding the group.
Once know as "Putin's chef" because of his catering fortune, he appeared in recent videos recruiting inmates in Russian prisons for the war in Ukraine.
Yevgeny Nuzhin's family knew nothing of his recruitment for the war, although before he died he told Ukrainian journalists he and the other prison recruits were merely "cannon fodder".
The Belfast-based broadband company Fibrus has won its first major contract in Great Britain.
The £108m scheme will upgrade broadband for more than 60,000 hard-to-reach homes and businesses across Cumbria in north-west England.
It is part of the UK government's Project Gigabit, which aims to improve broadband across the UK.
Fibrus is delivering a similar scheme in Northern Ireland known as Project Stratum.
Project Gigabit is mostly focused on encouraging commercial investment with the government subsiding roll-out to mainly rural areas where the private sector would not otherwise connect.
Fibrus chief executive Dominic Kearns said the Project Gigabit contract was a significant development for the company.
"Winning this contract to connect Cumbria extends the Fibrus investment plan to 700,000 homes and £700m and sets us on the road to being central to national digital infrastructure.
Elon Musk's satellites are to be part of a UK trial to get high-speed internet to remote homes and companies.
The enhanced package of connectivity - operated by his Starlink technology - is part of government plans to ensure everyone can access reliable coverage.
It will test how more than 3,000 low-Earth orbit small satellites can be used to help more than a dozen "very hard to reach" places.
The rollout will initially be trialled at three remote locations.
They are the 12th-Century Rievaulx Abbey in North York Moors National Park, Wasdale Head in the Lake District and within Snowdonia National Park.
After the trials, the government will consider the viability of using the technology.
Recent tests have shown that in many locations, Starlink satellites can deliver internet speeds of up to 200 megabits a second - four times faster than the current UK average of just over 50Mbps, said the Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport.
Digital Secretary Michelle Donelan said satellites could "be the answer" to getting isolated places connected and that it was "crucial" to the government's Levelling Up plan.
"These trials aim to find a solution to the prohibitively high cost of rolling out cables to far-flung locations," she said.
Broadband signals beamed down by relatively low-flying satellites can be an effective way for remote areas to get high-speed internet access, especially when they cannot be reached by copper cables.
Parts of Ukraine, for example, have had free access to the Starlink service to help people there stay connected after Russia's invasion.
Mr Musk made the commitment to continue funding the project, despite it running at a loss.
"Even though Starlink is still losing money and other companies are getting billions of taxpayer dollars, we'll just keep funding Ukraine government for free," he tweeted.
Starlink has been vital for Ukraine's military and people to stay online.
This is the latest announcement in the government's £5bn Project Gigabit initiative, with the ambition of getting rid of the UK's notspots - areas where there is no internet.
There are still many more than you may think.
Satellite broadband is a decent option where operators can't get cables or it simply isn't economically viable to install them - but it's also the most expensive for consumers.
It's not clear how much the government will be paying Starlink, but it costs about £89 per month for ordinary customers, after the £529 fee for the equipment.
What has raised eyebrows is that it has chosen not to use OneWeb, the British satellite broadband firm in which it invested hundreds of millions of pounds just two years ago to save it from bankruptcy.
That firm is now being taken over by French company Eutelsat.
The UK said it went with the technology which was "available and ready" to use - which does not sound like a huge vote of confidence in its own stake.
Sam Bankman-Fried, the former boss of collapsed cryptocurrency exchange FTX, has denied committing fraud.
Making his first public appearance since the collapse, the man once hailed as the 'King of Crypto' told The New York Times he had had a "bad month" and had almost no money left.
Many investors have not been able to withdraw their funds from the now bankrupt global exchange.
Mr Bankman-Fried, 30, also said his lawyers had advised him not to speak publicly, but he had ignored them.
He denied having moved any personal money out of FTX himself - saying he now has "close to nothing.
Speaking from The Bahamas, he said he had one credit card left which had around $100,000 of debt on it.
In the interview he said he had not deliberately misled investors, adding: "I didn't ever try to commit fraud.
However, asked several times about details of money movements between FTX and other entities, including the trading firm he owned, Alameda Research, he at times seemed sketchy in detail.
He also said the company had indulged in "greenwashing" where firms engage in environmental projects for publicity.
Mr Bankman-Fried was once viewed as a young version of legendary US investor Warren Buffet, and as recently as late October had a net worth estimated at more than $15bn.
However, he says, he underestimated the sheer amount of cash needed to cover FTX customers' withdrawals - leading to a run on the exchange.
Many crypto firms have struggled with the downturn in the broader economy and amid concerns about the viability of crypto currencies more generally.
FTX declared bankruptcy soon after.
Mr Bankman-Fried stepped down as CEO on 11 November.
Mr Bankman-Fried had become well known in Washington DC as a political donor, supposedly supporting pandemic prevention and improved crypto regulation.
But in his talk with Times reporter Andrew Ross Sorkin, Mr Bankman-Fried confessed much of his Washington DC work had been PR "masquerading as do-gooderism.
Mr Bankman-Fried said for now he was not concerned about potential criminal or civil liability.
"There's a time and a place for me to think about myself and my own future," he said after starting and stopping several times.
"I don't think this is it.
When asked if he had been truthful in his responses, Mr Bankman-Fried said he was as truthful as he knowledgeably could be.
"I don't know of times when I lied," he said.
Though he did not provide evidence to support it, SBF said he believed FTX US was solvent and could in fact pay back American investors.
Work is under way to give 60,000 homes and businesses in remote parts of Cumbria access to ultra-fast broadband.
More than 99% of the county would be connected to gigabit technology once work was completed, Secretary of State for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS), Michelle Donelan, told the BBC.
It is part of a £5bn national rollout.
Ms Donelan said: "Cumbria is going to be the most-connected region in the UK.
Sixty-thousand [properties] is the government investment, commercial companies have been doing the easier bits.
"It's a rolling project.
They'll be doing it as quickly as they can to get homes and business connected to gigabit, which is more reliable and can cope with multiple devices and support businesses.
The contract for the project in the county has been awarded to Belfast-based supplier Fibrus.
Installation work had started and the first gigabit connections were expected by the spring, the DCMS said.
Additionally, it has been announced a mountain rescue base at Wasdale Head in the Lake District will be one of three remote area's taking part in a government trial featuring Elon Musk's Starlink, which uses satellites to beam a broadband signal down to Earth.
Rievaulx Abbey, in North Yorkshire Moors National Park, and two sites within Snowdonia National Park will also feature in the scheme.
The DCMS said recent tests showed that in many locations Starlink satellites could deliver internet speeds of up to 200 megabits per second - four times faster than the current UK average broadband speed of just over 50Mbps.
Apple supplier Foxconn is ramping up efforts to recruit workers after unrest at the world's biggest iPhone factory.
Employees who successfully refer a friend or family member to work at its plant in Zhengzhou, China will receive a 1,000 yuan award ($141; £117).
It comes after footage circulated widely online last week showed angry protests at the factory.
Apple has warned that shipments of its new iPhone 14 would be delayed due to Covid restrictions.
Foxconn employees who refer a new recruit will be paid 500 yuan if the person stays working for the company for 15 days.
They will get another 500 yuan if the recruit remains in the role for a month, a post seen by the BBC on the popular messaging app WeChat said.
Last month, Foxconn apologised for a "technical error" in its payment system after protests at the factory in the city of Zhengzhou over Covid restrictions and claims of overdue pay.
The announcement came after videos posted on social media showed hundreds of workers clashing with security staff.
At the end of October, video shared online showed people jumping a fence outside the Foxconn after a Covid outbreak forced staff to lockdown at the facility.
The company then recruited new workers with the promise of generous bonuses.
However, one worker told the BBC that these contracts were changed so they "could not get the subsidy promised," adding that they were quarantined without food.
Some analysts have warned that the protests and Covid lockdowns have had a major impact on production at what is known as "iPhone City" ahead of the holiday shopping season.
"What started out a month ago as 3% iPhone 14 Pro shortages grew to 5% last week and now are roughly 10%+ of overall units with the potential to increase over the coming month depending on any production improvements from Foxconn," Dan Ives from investment firm Wedbush Securities said.
Although Apple has not put a figure on the the impact of the issues at the the Zhengzhou plant it has warned of delays to deliveries of the iPhone 14 Pro and iPhone 14 Pro Max.
China's National Health Commission reported 36,061 new Covid-19 infections for Wednesday, that's down from 37,828 new cases for Tuesday.
The country's zero-Covid policy and a slowdown of the global economy are taking a toll on China's economic growth.
Factory activity in the world's second largest economy shrank more than expected in November.
Elon Musk has said he and Apple boss Tim Cook have "resolved the misunderstanding" over Twitter possibly being removed from the app store.
On Monday, Mr Musk accused Apple of threatening to cut the platform from its app store and said it had halted most of its advertising on the site.
But the Twitter boss tweeted on Wednesday that: "Tim was clear that Apple never considered doing so.
He did not say if Apple's advertising was discussed at the meeting.
The meeting between the two tech leaders comes as many companies have halted spending on Twitter amid concerns about Mr Musk's content moderation plans for the site - a major blow to the company, which relies on such spending for most of its revenue.
Entering a feud on Monday, Mr Musk accused Apple of "censorship" and criticised its policies, including the charge it levies on purchases made on its app store.
"Apple has mostly stopped advertising on Twitter.
Do they hate free speech in America?" he said.
But he later told his followers he was meeting with Mr Cook at Apple's headquarters, adding: "Good conversation.
Among other things, we resolved the misunderstanding about Twitter potentially being removed from the App Store.
Tim was clear that Apple never considered doing so.
News of the meeting with Apple came after Mr Musk was told he faced "huge work ahead" to bring Twitter into compliance with new European Union rules on disinformation or face a possible ban.
EU commissioner Thierry Breton made the comments in a meeting with Mr Musk on Wednesday, saying the social media site would have to address issues such as content moderation, disinformation and targeted adverts.
Approved by the EU earlier this year, the Digital Services Act is seen as the biggest overhaul of rules governing online activity in decades, imposing new obligations on companies to prevent abuse of their platforms.
Major companies are expected to be in compliance with the law some time next year.
If firms are found to be violation, they face fines of up to 6% of global turnover - or a ban in the case of repeated serious breaches.
In a statement after the meeting, Mr Breton said he welcomed Mr Musk's assurances that he would get Twitter ready to comply.
"Let's also be clear that there is still huge work ahead, as Twitter will have to implement transparent user policies, significantly reinforce content moderation and protect freedom of speech, tackle disinformation with resolve, and limit targeted advertising," he said.
"All of this requires sufficient AI [Artificial Intelligence] and human resources, both in volumes and skills.
I look forward to progress in all these areas and we will come to assess Twitter's readiness on site.
The EU plans to conduct a "stress test" in 2023 ahead of a wider audit, his office said.
Since his $44bn takeover of Twitter last month, Mr Musk has fired thousands of staff, reinstated formerly banned users such as Donald Trump and stopped enforcing other policies, such as rules aimed at stopping misleading information on coronavirus.
The moves have alarmed some civil rights groups, who have accused the billionaire of taking steps that will increase hate speech, misinformation and abuse.
In a blog post on Wednesday, Twitter said none of its policies had changed, but that it was experimenting in an effort to improve the platform more quickly and would rely more on steps to limit the spread of material that violate its rules - offering "freedom of speech but not freedom of reach".
"Our trust & safety team continues its diligent work to keep the platform safe from hateful conduct, abusive behavior, and any violation of Twitter's rules," the company added.
"The team remains strong and well-resourced, and automated detection plays an increasingly important role in eliminating abuse," it said.
San Francisco's ruling Board of Supervisors has voted to let the city's police use robots that can kill.
The measure permits police to deploy robots equipped with explosives in extreme circumstances.
Dr Catherine Connolly, from the group Stop Killer Robots, said the move was a "slippery slope" that could distance humans from killing.
The city's police - the SFPD - told the BBC they do not currently operate any robots equipped with lethal force.
They said though that there may be future scenarios in which lethal force could be used by a robot.
A spokesperson for the police said "robots could potentially be equipped with explosive charges to breach fortified structures containing violent, armed, or dangerous subjects".
They also said robots could be used to "incapacitate, or disorient violent, armed, or dangerous suspects who pose a risk of loss of life".
Advocates for the measure said it would only be used in extreme situations.
Opponents, however, say the authority could lead to further militarisation of the police force.
The measure passed, with an amendment on Tuesday specifying that officers could only use robots wielding deadly force after employing alternative de-escalation tactics.
The board also stipulated that only a limited number of high-ranking officers could authorise its use.
This type of lethal robot is already in use in other parts of the United States.
In 2016, police in Dallas, Texas, used a robot armed with C-4 explosive to kill a sniper who had killed two officers and injured several more.
The SFPD said the department does not currently own any robots outfitted with lethal force, but said the measure might be needed in the future.
"No policy can anticipate every conceivable situation or exceptional circumstance which officers may face.
The SFPD must be prepared, and have the ability, to respond proportionally," a spokesperson said.
The federal government has long dispensed military grade equipment, camouflage uniforms, bayonets and armoured vehicles to help local law enforcement.
But a California state law passed this year now requires city police forces to inventory military-grade equipment and seek approval for their use.
Dr Catherine Connolly, from the campaign group Stop Killer Robots, said the move could "make humans more and more distant from the use of force and the consequences of the use of force".
She also said the measure could make it "easier to make decisions to use lethal force in the first place".
A "digital" trade deal between the UK and Ukraine has been agreed.
The digital trade agreement was struck at a London meeting of Trade Secretary Kemi Badenoch and Ukraine's Minister for Trade and Economy Yulia Svyrydenko.
Trading digitally is particularly valuable, the UK government argues, because war and damage to Ukrainian infrastructure makes trading physically difficult.
It is hoped the agreement will help bolster Ukraine's beleaguered economy.
According to the Department for International Trade (DIT) it is hoped the agreement will help the UK and Ukraine make their digital identity systems work together.
There is critical need for people who have lost documentation or been forced by the war to travel to new countries to be able to use digital tools to prove they are who they say they are, it said.
The deal will also enable deeper cooperation on cybersecurity, and help smooth flows of cross-border information between financial services firms an explanatory note says.
Ms Svyrydenko said the deal illustrated that Ukrainian IT companies were in demand around the world despite all the challenges of war.
It comes as Ukrainian businesses and infrastructure face attack from Russian hackers.
The deal is an agreement in principle.
A legally binding final text of the agreement is yet to be agreed, Sabina Ciofu an international trade expert for industry body TechUK told the BBC.
Typically such deals formally agree cooperation on things like cyber security, artificial intelligence (AI) and emerging technologies.
These could translate into "pilot projects with regulators and industry on both sides" she said.
Much would depend on how the deal was finally implemented, but according to Ms Ciofu, "this particular agreement will likely see a lot of support - from industry too - to move fast on implementation".
Ms Badenoch said the deal would "help protect jobs, livelihoods and families now and in Ukraine's post-war future".
The deal follows Tuesday's visit by Ukraine's First Lady Olena Zelenska to the UK parliament.
She told members of both houses of alleged Russian war crimes and called for the UK to support for a special tribunal to prosecute Russian aggression against Ukraine.
Supermarket grocery delivery robots are set to become a familiar sight on the streets of a Leeds suburb.
Leeds City Council has partnered with the Co-op and Starship Technologies to offer the service to 20,000 residents in the Adel and Tinshill areas.
The expansion to Yorkshire comes after the roving robots were introduced in other areas, including Milton Keynes.
The scheme would help reduce the number of short journeys made by car, officials said.
According to the firm, the robots are a more "sustainable and affordable way to get groceries delivered to your door", with an average delivery for a robot consuming as little energy as boiling a kettle to make just one cup of tea.
The robots are also lightweight and travel at human walking pace - no faster than 4mph (6km/h).
Starship, which plans to dress the six-wheeled robots as reindeer over the festive season, first launched the scheme in Milton Keynes and has been steadily expanding ever since.
Chief executive Alastair Westgarth said the three-month trial in Leeds was the firm's "first significant expansion to the north of England".
"We are confident the robots will make a positive impact in terms of actively reducing traffic congestion and carbon emissions, while also providing ease and convenience for local communities," he said.
Councillor Helen Hayden, Leeds City Council's executive member for infrastructure and climate, said the technology would help "to reduce the number of short journeys made by car, including those made by delivery vehicles".
"As a council we are absolutely committed to delivering alternative, sustainable methods of travel to help reach our target of becoming net-zero by 2030," she added.
A surgical team has used a new type of robot to remove a cancerous tumour from a patient's throat.
Gloucestershire Royal Hospital surgeons Simon Higgs and Steve Hornby employed the Versius robot to remove a tumour from Martin Nugent's oesophagus.
"If it wasn't for them, I wouldn't be standing here now," Mr Nugent said.
"To have been given a second chance to see my grandchildren, my children and my wife has meant so much to me.
Operating on the oesophagus - which connects the mouth to the stomach - would previously have been performed through open surgery or another type of machine.
Minimal access surgery, employed by this robot, creates smaller incisions, reduces post-operative pain, complications and scarring.
It also shortens the recovery time for patients.
"It's astonishing really that this kind of thing is happening here in Gloucester," Mr Nugent added.
Mr Higgs, upper gastrointestinal (GI) consultant, said: "Upper GI is an extremely busy department and adopting Versius signifies a new era for the specialty, as many more patients will receive minimal access surgery.
Gloucestershire Royal Hospital started using the Versius robot last year, and with Mr Nugent's operation became the first NHS hospital in the country to start using it in upper GI surgery.
Mr Nugent added: "Last year I was in so much pain I couldn't eat any Christmas dinner.
"I'm thinking we'll make up for it this year and I'm just so grateful to be given the opportunity to enjoy another Christmas.
A water company targeted by hackers says the bank details of customers could have been accessed and potentially leaked on the dark web.
South Staffordshire PLC, the parent company of South Staffs Water and Cambridge Water, said it had started informing customers involved.
It said it was liaising with the National Crime Agency.
The company, which caters for residential and business customers in Staffordshire, parts of the West Midlands and in and around Cambridge, was targeted on 16 August.
Names and addresses of account holders, together with the sort codes and account numbers used for Direct Debit payments all could have been accessed by hackers, it said.
It has issued an apology to those affected and said it was "still assessing the potential impact on customer data".
"Investigations like this are very complex and it takes time to understand what happened and then to analyse the data that could have been impacted," it said.
"As soon as we were aware that we needed to notify our customers in compliance with our legal obligations we began to do so.
South Staffordshire PLC has written to affected customers offering free access to a credit monitoring service for 12 months, which, it said, would alert them if any of their personal data had been compromised on the dark web.
Details of a dedicated helpline are also included.
The firm said it had experienced disruption to its corporate IT network, but its ability to supply safe water was unaffected.
Posting online at the time, a ransomware group had claimed it was possible to tamper with water supplies, however this was disputed by the water company.
Ransomware attacks involve criminals breaking into a network and stealing or blocking access to important files until a ransom payment is made.
"Consumers can have complete confidence that the water we supply is safe," said Andy Willicott, managing director of South Staffs Water.
"We understand that customers trust us to keep their data safe and I'd personally like to say sorry to all those customers impacted - we'll be doing what we can to support you through this.
One customer, posting on Twitter, said they were "absolutely dumbfounded" that the data had been breached.
"Why are we the customers expected to sign up for protection from further misuse of our data," they added.
The sale of Nexperia's site in Newport could take "years" according to Wales' first minister.
The Chinese-owned company was ordered by UK ministers to sell its 86% stake in the Newport site, due to national security concerns.
Mark Drakeford said it would be for the UK government to provide any financial support to help it move to new ownership.
He made his comments at a meeting of the Commons Welsh affairs committee.
Earlier in November the Westminster government ruled that Nexperia's takeover of the semiconductor plant - the largest in the UK - risked undermining UK capabilities in producing compound semiconductors.
It also said the plant's location as part of a semiconductor cluster on the Duffryn industrial estate, could "facilitate access to technological expertise and know-how".
The local Labour MP, Newport West's Ruth Jones, is backing moves by Nexperia to appeal.
Mr Drakeford told the committee the sale of the UK's largest microchip plant "is not going to happen quickly" and that any financial support needed to help it move to new ownership should come from the UK government.
Answering a question about financial aid for the plant from Labour's Ruth Jones MP, Mr Drakeford said: "We don't have national security responsibilities, nor do we have any insight into the reasons why the UK government came to the conclusion that it did.
"What I think has become much clearer in the aftermath of the decision is that the sale of the company is not going to happen quickly.
"We're talking years rather than months here".
He added: "The investment that will be needed to move Nexperia - or the successor to Nexperia - from a fab manufacturing chips for Nexperia's customers to one making other semi-conductor products for a new owner is also likely to take many hundreds of millions of pounds.
"The issue of Nexperia and how its transition to new ownership is to be supported I think is a matter for the UK government given that they made the decision in the first place.
Spotify, Apple Music and Deezer all said the track was their top performer of the year, beating competition from Ed Sheeran, Drake and Taylor Swift.
It was also the biggest song globally on Spotify and Deezer, with Justin Bieber's Stay topping Apple's chart.
Styles has said the song is about "metamorphosis", as he reflects on loneliness, growing up and moving on.
While Styles' hit was uniformly loved across the three streaming services, there was a huge divergence further down the chart.
Spotify listeners showed a huge appetite for UK rap, with releases by Dave, Aitch and D-Block Europe all performing well.
Apple's audience leaned more towards pop, charting songs by Adele and Elton John that didn't appear in Spotify's list.
That created space for Nigerian rapper Rema, whose laid-back hit Calm Down was his second most-streamed song of the year; and Camila Cabello, whose duet with Ed Sheeran, Bam Bam, came third.
Puerto Rican rapper Bad Bunny was the most-played artist overall on Spotify for the third year running, thanks largely to his Grammy-nominated double album Un Verano Sin Ti (A Summer Without You).
However, he could not replicate that success in the UK, where audiences still seem averse to music sung in languages other than English.
Taylor Swift was the most-played artist for those listeners, with Drake and Ed Sheeran in second and third place.
Meanwhile, LF System's Chaka Khan-sampling dance hit Afraid To Feel was the most Shazammed song of the year.
"Yaaasss! It's an honour that people want to discover and hear our music," said the Scottish duo.
"Thanks to everyone that supported us in 2022 - Big Love.
Other streaming services, including YouTube and Amazon Music, have yet to release their figures.
The Official Charts will reveal the overall biggest songs of the year - tallying streams, downloads and physical sales - in January.
The statistics come as the streaming services release their end-of-year recaps - which provide users with a customised deep dive into their listening statistics.
Spotify's Wrapped has been expanded, with the service's 456 million listeners discovering not only their most-played songs and podcasts, but the tracks they favour at different times of the day.
Fans will also be given a "listening personality" - that analyses their habits in categories such as "exploration vs familiarity" or "variety vs loyalty".
And for the first time, they'll be shown how many times they pressed play on their favourite song.
But some of the people who work on the app are reluctant to make their results public.
"It's always interesting to see who wants to share and who doesn't want to share," said Tom Connaughton, MD of Spotify for the UK.
"If you go and stand by our music team, they're the least likely to want to show you [their results] because they're scared of what it says about them.
Apple has also revamped its Replay feature, telling users how many individual songs and artists they played over the year, and preparing a playlist of their most-played songs.
It also produces a shareable list of your Top 10 artists, along with the number of minutes you spent listening/dancing/driving/studying/falling asleep to their music.
"The music we enjoy throughout the year becomes like a soundtrack," said Oliver Schusser, vice president of Apple Music.
"It's really fun to be able to go back and relive those meaningful and memorable moments over again.
A Somerset charity believes social media is contributing to poor mental health among the children it supports.
The Space works with 10 schools in the Wessex Learning Trust and said 76% of the children it works with have anxiety, while 54% have depression and 41% have had suicidal thoughts.
The charity said parents were "at a total loss" as to how to support children online.
But a psychiatrist says "the jury is out" on social media's health impacts.
If you have been affected by any issues in this report, you can visit the BBC's Action Line, or contact the Samaritans for free at any time.
Dr Tim Williams, former medical director of specialist service at the Avon and Wiltshire Mental Health Partnership, said: "There is some evidence to show that social media has a negative impact on particularly teenagers.
"But there is some evidence to show there is no detrimental effect.
So at the moment the jury is out.
Jessica Powell died in August 2020 days after she suffered an injury while she was an inpatient at Summerlands Hospital in Yeovil.
Her father, John Powell, has blamed social media for contributing to the 20-year-old, from Yeovil, developing "emotionally unstable border personality disorder".
He said Jessica had a 10-year history of self-harm and eating disorders which was fuelled by some sites promoting self-harm and eating disorders, as well as social media content with unrealistic images of young people's bodies.
Mr Powell said: "We said the rule of the house was, up to the age of 18, we would have our children's passwords - just to safeguard them.
"All these images they see of photoshopped children, young people aspire to look like that.
And this is where a lot of the problems start.
The Space gathered information from more than 102 youngsters it helped in the Cheddar Valley during the academic year 2021-22 for a report.
Operations director Doreen Smith spoke to focus groups of children and parents and was told social media was contributing to young people's mental health issues.
"Parents have described the experience of being at a total loss to know how to support their child," she said.
Mrs Smith has had meetings with headteachers and parents about the findings to discuss how young people can be supported.
Communication, which began in their 20s, is still going strong between Honiton and Texas.
They also both said they planned to keep the long-running friendship going for as long as possible.
Their correspondence began when they were in their 20s as part of an educational project to put British and American students in contact.
Over the decades, the letters kept crossing the Atlantic.
Since then, pen and paper have given way to emails, with the help of their children, and now video calls.
Mr Banks said it was a "source of great satisfaction to write to her for over all these years".
He said: "She's a very interesting person.
We exchange stories and she's very good to talk to.
But, with such a long-running friendship between the boy from England and the girl from the US, the question has been asked if there was any ever any romance.
Celesta Byrne swiftly put such questions to rest: "No, we're just friends, like people who live next door.
"You ask how they're doing, you say a few words and then you both go to work.
"There wasn't 'glibbily globbally' stuff, it was just normal neighbour people.
Twitter says it has stopped enforcing its policy on misleading information about coronavirus.
According to the company's website, it stopped taking action against tweets breaching its Covid rules, on Wednesday, 23 November.
Twitter had previously reported suspending more than 11,000 accounts for Covid misinformation as of September this year.
BBC News has approached Twitter for comment.
Its other policies on false information remain on Twitter's website, without a similar notice saying they will no longer be enforced.
Under its Covid-specific policy, Twitter operated a "five-strike system" for accounts posting "demonstrably false or misleading" content that may "lead to significant risk of harm" - such as exposure to Covid or damage to public health systems.
No action would be taken against accounts tweeting disinformation once.
But repeat offenders could be suspended for a matter of hours, days - or even indefinitely, if they received five strikes against their account.
Now, some of those who fell foul of the rules are returning to the website.
For example, Twitter has reinstated the personal account of US congresswoman Marjorie Taylor Greene, banned in January.
Millions of users voted for the reinstatement of suspended accounts in a Twitter poll, causing boss Elon Musk to tweet: "The people have spoken.
The Tesla chief executive has vowed to make Twitter a hub for free speech online following his $44bn (£37bn) purchase.
Criticisms the platform has been slow to act on false or unproven health claims are nothing new.
Even when Twitter did introduce an option to report misleading posts in the summer of 2021 - something it now seems to be rowing back on - I heard from dozens of people who said the process was unclear and the option didn't always seem to be available.
But the site did seem to be trying to get a grip on some of its most potentially harmful posts, removing more than 10,000 accounts - like Dr Robert Malone, whose message Covid vaccines are ineffective or very dangerous is contradicted by the overwhelming weight of evidence.
Now the direction at Twitter HQ is changing, the question is whether these accounts will return or new ones will be emboldened to share incorrect information, that could influence the decisions people make about their health.
The government is insisting its amendments to the Online Safety Bill will keep children safe on the internet.
Powers to define legal but harmful content have been dropped - satisfying some free-speech advocates.
Safety groups say it's too easy for children to access pornography online.
But ministers reject criticism that the legislation has been watered down, pointing to what they say is better age verification for children.
Research by regulator Ofcom indicates that one in three children currently have access to adult content on social media.
They simply lie about their date of birth to get round age restrictions on websites.
As part of the bill, all sites that publish pornography will have to put in enhanced checks to ensure their users really are 18 or over.
This could include adults using secure age verification technology to prove that they possess a credit card and are over 18, or having a third-party service confirm their age against government data.
Sites that fail to act could be fined up to 10% of their global turnover by Ofcom, and bosses of these websites could also be held criminally liable if they fail to co-operate.
Children's safety groups have long been calling for age verification on porn sites, over fears it is too easy for minors to access publicly available material online.
Will Gardner, CEO of Childnet International, told the BBC: "In the offline world we have robust systems to prevent children from accessing things which may harm them.
"People have to show ID before purchasing pornography, alcohol and cigarettes, or before watching an 18 film at the cinema.
We want to carry these same protections into the online environment.
There are widespread concerns that exposure to porn is affecting the way young people understand healthy relationships, sex and consent.
Experts who work with children say it puts them at risk from predators and could possibly stop them reporting abuse.
According to online safety group Internet Matters, more than half of mothers fear it gives their children a poor portrayal of women.
It will be up to companies to decide how best to comply with the new rules, but Ofcom may recommend the use of certain age verification technologies.
Already the UK's largest site with adult content, OnlyFans, has adopted age verification for all new UK subscribers, using third-party tools provided by Yoti and Ondato.
Despite the widespread use of age verification technology in sectors such as online gambling, there are still fears it poses privacy risks.
Campaigners have warned that a database of pornography users would be a huge hacking target for blackmailers.
Monica Horten, of the Open Rights Group, which campaigns to preserve digital rights and freedoms, said the bill created a "Hobson's choice" about content for children.
She said platforms would have to "either lock them out entirely, or sanitise their platform to the level of the youngest child likely to access their service".
Ms Horten added the only alternative would be to "guess the age" of users with AI systems using biometric data which she said "raised serious privacy concerns".
But Iain Corby, executive director of the Age Verification Providers Association, said firms he represented had developed a wide range of methods to prove someone's age online without disclosing their identity to the websites they visit.
"Just as someone on the door of a nightclub might guess your age by how old you look, for those who are well over a legal age artificial intelligence software can estimate your age based on a selfie or even a voice recording, and has been tested to prove it is generally far more accurate than the average bouncer.
"Where there is a stricter legal limit, more traditional forms of age verification may be needed, such as the use of a passport or driving licence.
"The essence of these methods is they allow you prove your age without giving away your identity, so you can remain anonymous online if you wish.
A council is considering buying drones to deal with nuisance off-road bikers following hundreds of complaints.
In the past 12 months West Midlands Police has received 777 reports from residents in Walsall.
Walsall Council says the technology could help police gather evidence to track offenders and seize their motorbikes.
"These are deadly machines in the wrong hands," said Paul Gordon, the council's director of resilient communities.
Mr Gordon added the problem with off-road bikes spanned the borough but there were "corridors of activity where we would want to take targeted action", according to the Local Democracy Reporting Service.
"We're gathering lots of data and we're starting to get the evidence together to be able to deal with this in a proactive way.
The message from ourselves is 'we're coming to get you and your bikes'," he said.
Ch Supt Phil Dolby, of Walsall police, said the West Midlands force did have use of drone technology but this was shared across the area, with demand high.
"Off-road bikes and the way they are being ridden at the moment is totally unacceptable, frustrating and very dangerous,"said Ch Supt Dolby.
"What's quite tricky for us is a tactical response that doesn't lead to injuries to the public, these people or my officers either being injured or in court.
Police were "coming around to" the use of drone footage to track offenders, confiscate and crush vehicles, he added.
Walsall Council figures reveal a further 57 complaints of anti-social biking to its community protection team in the past 12 months.
Councillor Garry Perry, deputy leader for resilient communities, said he had also received more than 100 reports, largely of noise nuisance and intimidation, from residents in the Pelsall area.
"You have those who just have [bikes] for recreational use but you have another type who use those vehicles on the road without helmets and often with their faces covered," he said.
Walsall Council leader Mike Bird said his cabinet would look into financing a drone for the police to use solely in the borough.
"We've got to stop this.
It is an invest to save," Mr Bird added.
Controversial measures which would have forced big technology platforms to take down legal but harmful material have been axed from the Online Safety Bill.
Critics of the section in the bill claimed it posed a risk to free speech.
Culture Secretary Michelle Donelan denied weakening laws protecting adult social media users and said they would have more control over what they saw.
The bill - which aims to police the internet - is intended to become law in the UK before next summer.
The government argues that the changes do not undermine the protections for children.
Technology companies will still have to stop children - defined as those under 18 - from seeing content that poses a risk of causing significant harm.
Many social media platforms have a minimum age and offer parental controls.
Companies will have to explain how they will check their users' age - some like Instagram are using age-verification technology.
But some have criticised the latest changes, including Labour and the Samaritans who called it a hugely backward step.
Ian Russell, the father of teenager Molly Russell, who ended her life after viewing suicide and self-harm content online, said the bill had been watered down and the decision might have been made for political reasons to help it pass more quickly.
But Ms Donelan said there may have been a "misunderstanding" over what Ian Russell said.
She told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "nothing is getting watered down or taken out when it comes to children.
"We're adding extra in, so there is no change to children.
This is a very complicated Bill and there's lots of aspects to it, but I wouldn't want any of your listeners to think for a minute that we are removing anything when it comes to children because we're not.
The bill previously included a section which required "the largest, highest-risk platforms" to tackle some legal but harmful material accessed by adults.
It meant that the likes of Facebook, Instagram and YouTube would have been told to prevent people being exposed to content relating to self-harm and eating disorders as well as misogynistic posts.
That prompted criticism that the bill opened the door for technology companies to censor legal speech.
It was "legislating for hurt feelings", former Conservative leadership candidate Kemi Badenoch said.
That requirement has now been removed from the bill - tech giants will instead have to introduce a system allowing adult users more control to filter out harmful content they do not want to see.
Ms Donelan insisted the legislation was not being watered down - and that tech companies had the expertise to protect people online.
"These are massive, massive corporations that have the money, the knowhow and the tech to be able to adhere to this," she said.
She warned that those who did not comply would face significant fines and "huge reputational damage".
Adults will be able to access and post anything legal, provided a platform's terms of service allow it - although, children must still be protected from viewing harmful material.
In July, the former minister David Davis was one of nine senior Conservatives who wrote a letter to then Culture Secretary Nadine Dorries, warning the legal but harmful provision posed a threat to free speech.
He told the BBC he was glad it had now been taken out the bill but he still had other "serious worries" about the threat to privacy and freedom of expression which could "undermine end-to-end encryption".
In some scenarios the bill permits the government to direct companies to use technology to examine private messages.
"I urge the government to accept the amendments in my name to fix these technology notices so that they no longer pose a threat to encryption, which we all rely on to keep safe online," he said.
Lucy Powell MP, Labour's shadow culture secretary, criticised the decision to remove obligations over "legal but harmful" material.
She said it gave a "free pass to abusers and takes the public for a ride" that it was "a major weakening, not strengthening, of the bill".
And the boss of charity the Samaritans, Julie Bentley, said "the damaging impact that this type of content has doesn't end on your 18th birthday".
"Increasing the controls that people have is no replacement for holding sites to account through the law and this feels very much like the Government snatching defeat from the jaws of victory.
But Ms Donelan told BBC News the revised bill offered "a triple shield of protection - so it's certainly not weaker in any sense".
This could include content promoting eating disorders or inciting hate on the basis of race, ethnicity, sexual orientation or gender reassignment- although, there will be exemptions to allow legitimate debate.
But the first two parts of the triple shield were already included in the draft bill.
At its heart this complicated bill has a simple aim: those things that are criminal or unacceptable in real life should be treated the same online.
But that means reining in the power of the big tech companies and bringing an end to the era of self-regulation.
Getting the bill this far has been a complex balancing act.
Dropping the need to define what counts as "legal but harmful" content may have satisfied free speech advocates.
Including new criminal offences around encouraging self-harm or sharing deep fake porn could feel like a win for campaigners.
But it won't satisfy everyone - the Samaritans for example don't feel it adequately protects adults from harmful material.
The Molly Rose Foundation set up by Molly Russell's family believes the bill's been watered down.
It's not about freedom of speech, it said in a statement, it's about the freedom to live.
And there's much about the bill that is still unclear.
Internet safety campaigner Mr Russell told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "I think the most harmful content to [Molly] was content that could be described as legal but harmful.
He added: "It is very hard to understand that something that was important as recently as July, when the bill would have had a full reading in the Commons and was included in the bill, this legal but harmful content, it is very hard to understand why that suddenly can't be there.
Campaign group the Centre for Countering Digital Hate (CCDH) said platforms might feel "off the hook" because of the new focus on user controls "in place of active duties to deal with bad actors and dangerous content".
Elon Musk's takeover of Twitter indicated tough rules were needed, it said.
Twitter recently reinstated a number of banned accounts, including that of Ye, formerly known as Kanye West, which had been suspended over anti-Semitic posts.
But CCDH chief executive Imran Ahmed added it was welcome the government "had strengthened the law against encouragement of self-harm and distribution of intimate images without consent".
It was recently announced that the encouragement of self-harm would be prohibited in the update to the Online Safety Bill.
Other changes will require technology companies to assess and publish the risk of potential harm to children on their sites.
Companies must also explain how they will enforce age limits - knowing users' ages will be a key part in preventing children seeing certain types of content.
And users' accounts must not be removed unless they have broken the law or the site's rules.
Tech policy expert at the Open Rights Group, Dr Monica Horten, said the bill lacked definition about how companies will know the age of their users.
"Companies are likely to use AI systems analysing biometric data including head and hand measurements, and voices," she said.
"This is a recipe for a gated internet, currently subject to minimal regulation and run by third-party private operators.
Much of the enforcement of the new law will be by communications and media regulator Ofcom, which will be able to fine companies up to 10% of their worldwide revenue.
It must now consult the victims' commissioner, the domestic-abuse commissioner and the children's commissioner when drawing up the codes technology companies must follow.
It sounds too good to be true: a plan to harvest solar energy from space and beam it down to Earth using microwaves.
But it's something that could be happening as soon as 2035, according to Martin Soltau, the co-chairman at Space Energy Initiative (SEI) - a collaboration of industry and academics.
SEI is working on a project called Cassiopeia, which plans to place a constellation of very large satellites in a high Earth orbit.
Once deployed the satellites would harvest solar energy and beam it back down to Earth.
He says the potential is almost unlimited.
"In theory it could supply all of the world's energy in 2050," he says.
"There's sufficient room in orbit for the solar power satellites, and the Sun's supply of energy is vast.
A narrow strip around geostationary Earth orbit receives more than 100 times the amount of energy per year than all of humanity is forecast to use in 2050," Mr Soltau says.
Earlier this year, the UK government announced £3m in funding for space-based solar power (SBSP) projects, following an engineering study conducted by consultancy Frazer-Nash that concluded the technology was viable.
SEI is hoping to get a big chunk of that money.
Its satellites would be made up of hundreds of thousands of small, identical modules produced in factories on Earth, and assembled in space by autonomous robots, who would also carry out servicing and maintenance.
The solar energy collected by the satellites would be converted into high frequency radio waves and beamed to a rectifying antenna on Earth, which would convert the radio waves into electricity.
Each satellite could deliver around 2GW of power into the grid, making each satellite comparable in power output to a nuclear power station.
Here on Earth, sunlight is diffused by the atmosphere, but in space it comes directly from the sun without interference.
So a space-based solar panel can collect a lot more energy than a similar sized one on Earth.
Similar projects are under development elsewhere.
In the US, for example, the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) is working on some of the critical technologies needed for such a system, in a project known as Space Solar Power Incremental Demonstrations and Research (SSPIDR).
These include improving solar cell efficiencies, solar-to-radio frequency conversion and beam forming, as well as reducing the large temperature fluctuations on spacecraft components and creating designs for deployable structures.
Late last year, the team successfully demonstrated new components for a so-called sandwich tile, which is used to convert solar energy into radio waves.
In a 2009 reportNasa scientist James Logan looked at the safety issues.
In his report, he said the intensity of a typical space-based microwave beam would reach 30mW/cm2 at the centre - around 3% as strong as a typical counter-top microwave oven.
At its perimeter, the energy from the beam would be around the same as the amount of radiation that current standards allow to leak up to 5cm away from a microwave oven.
Although birds might be able to detect the microwave beams, the beams could "never even come close to 'cooking' birds in flight", the report said.
While many of the biggest hurdles have already been cleared, there are still potential problems.
"My personal take on this is that we like to think the technology is there, but it's not quite ready yet for us to embark on a project of such complexity," says Dr Jovana Radulovic, a thermodynamics lecturer at the University of Portsmouth, who specialises in renewable energy systems.
She makes the point that launching a large number of solar panels into space will be expensive and, given that any project could require hundreds of launches, it would generate a lot of carbon dioxide.
But there is cause for optimism.
An environmental analysis of the Cassiopeia project by the University of Strathclyde has concluded that overall, including launch, the carbon footprint could be as little as half that of terrestrial solar, at about 24g of CO2 per kilowatt-hour.
Meanwhile, says Mr Soltau, the economic case is improving all the time.
"The cost of launch has fallen by 90% and is continuing to fall, and this has been game-changing for the economics," he says.
"Secondly, there have been some real advances in the design of solar power satellites, so that they're much more modular, which provides resilience and reduced production costs.
Thirdly, we've got real advances in robotics and autonomous systems.
With only limited funding from the UK government, SEI is hoping to attract private investment for some of the technologies involved.
However, warns Dr Radulovic, the proposed timeline may be over-optimistic.
"I think with significant investment and focused effort into this area, there's no reason why we couldn't have the system up and running as smaller pilot projects in the foreseeable future," she says.
"But something on a large scale - we are talking about kilometres of solar arrays - would take a substantially longer time.
Tuesday, 17 January 2023 is the day analysts predict Elon Musk will become the number-one influencer on Twitter.
With 120 million followers, his account, @ElonMusk, is already the second most followed, after @BarackObama, the former US president's, which has 130 million.
And following a meteoric rise in the month since he bought Twitter, Mr Musk's will inevitably overtake, statisticians at Social Blade say.
This will be an unprecedented moment.
The social-media industry has never before seen a platform with a chief executive who is also its biggest personality.
BBC News has asked experts for their thoughts on three key statistics.
In spite of recent controversies, Mr Musk's popularity on Twitter is undeniable and growing.
Over the past 12 months, he has gained 268,303 followers a day, on average, according to Social Blade, and lost followers on only five days, which can all be linked to news events.
He lost nearly 200,000 on 12 November, when major job cuts were announced at Twitter - and as he is likely to have gained new followers that day too, the actual number who unfollowed him must have been much higher.
"Elon Musk is now the main character on Twitter," social-media commentator Matt Navarra says.
"In some ways, having a CEO who is a major influencer on the platform has some advantages because it makes him very accessible to people.
Very few social-media chief executives are major influencers on their own websites.
Meta chief executive Mark Zuckerberg is also a celebrity - but not an active poster on Facebook, Mr Navarra says, and his posts are more corporate in tone.
Twitter being inextricably linked to Mr Musk - a divisive character - could be a problem for Twitter.
"He is very antagonistic and inflammatory and, some might even say, quite toxic," Mr Navarra says.
"And for brands, he might be seen as potentially very dangerous.
Emerging-technology consultant Kate Baucherel says: "Wrapping the personality of the CEO into the personality of the platform compromises any neutrality or diversity.
A white male US-resident does not represent the world.
Already a prolific tweeter, Mr Musk has been posting 84% more often since buying the platform, according to Social Blade.
On Tuesday, 22 November, he fired off 75 separate tweets, either as posts, replies or retweets.
This is a record for him.
"It's great to have a CEO who uses the product," a former senior product manager at Twitter, who wishes to remain anonymous, says.
And it should not impede Mr Musk's direction of the company.
But he says: "I think people who tweet a lot are addicted - and possibly narcissistic.
No single person has enough interesting things to say to the entire world to tweet more than five times a day.
On average Mr Musk is now tweeting once every 15 minutes during normal waking hours.
The experts we spoke to all agreed that having a CEO immersed in his or her platform can be a good thing but all agreed that the type of content Mr Musk is posting could be problematic.
Recent tweets have included sexual imagery and swearing.
And, responding to critics saying he was killing Twitter, he posted an adaptation of a meme of a man smiling and swearing at a graveside during a funeral.
Mr Navarra says Mr Musk is a huge engagement driver for Twitter and his recent tweets have brought in a significant number of new users or reactivated old ones.
"We only have to look back to another character that shares an alarming amount of similarities.
"Trump was also a huge driver of activity and engagement from his tweets and I'm sure that was a benefit to Twitter.
"But I would also say he's probably a net negative in terms of the problems it brought with it for content moderation and toxic content.
"Elon Musk is having a similar effect on the platform.
Twitter permanently suspended President Trump after the storming of the US Capitol building, in Washington, in January 2021, citing "the risk of further incitement of violence".
Mr Musk reinstated his account on 19 November, following a poll of Twitter users, though Mr Trump has not subsequently tweeted.
Twitter founder Jack Dorsey followed about 3,500 people when he was chief executive.
"He has no idea what the experience of normal users is," the former Twitter manager says.
"For example, he never sees ads - because we limit advertising served to the top 1,000 or so users.
So he wouldn't have understood that part of the product before he bought it.
Mr Musk reportedly told Twitter's marketing team adverts should "look like tweets", when the company's ads already were tweets.
The former Twitter manager also says Mr Musk's skewed experience on the site as a top influencer may prevent him understanding how to improve it and grow it.
Twitter is smaller than other social networks and "average time spent was a severe constraint to our growth and ads business".
"People who are committed users spend a lot of time on the site - but they need to find a way to increase the time that the masses spend," the former Twitter insider says.
Every time Mr Musk logs into his account, he is greeted with notifications making him feel good and want to stay on the site.
But for most users, this is not the case.
Growing the number of Twitter users to a billion is one of Mr Musk's key goals.
Now, there are about 300 million - which, at the current rate, is the number of followers Mr Musk himself will have in two years' time, according to Social Blade projections.
Elon Musk has said Apple has halted most of its advertising on Twitter and accused the company of threatening to remove the platform from its app store.
The feud comes as many companies have halted spending on Twitter amid concerns about Mr Musk's content moderation plans for the site.
Apple has not responded to requests for comment from the BBC.
Mr Musk has said Twitter has seen a "massive" drop in revenue, blaming activists for pressuring advertisers.
In a series of Tweets on Monday, he accused Apple of "censorship" and criticised its policies, including the charge it levies on purchases made on its app store.
"Apple has mostly stopped advertising on Twitter.
Do they hate free speech in America?" he said.
The owner of the social media platform also claimed Apple had threatened to withhold Twitter from its app store, but did not say why.
Mr Musk, who purchased Twitter for $44bn last month, is under pressure as some companies halt spending.
He has said he hopes to make money by turning Twitter verification into a paid subscription service, but currently the vast majority of the site's revenue comes from advertising.
Companies including Cheerios maker General Mills and Volkswagen are among the firms that have halted their spending in recent weeks.
Media Matters, a watchdog site, reported last week that half of Twitter's top advertisers had pulled their advertising on Twitter after concerns about the direction of Twitter.
Elon Musk has worked out who really holds the power over social media companies.
The billionaire famously doesn't like being told what to do.
And yet Apple holds all the cards when it comes to Twitter.
Firstly, as others have found out, only Apple decides who's allowed on the App Store.
If Apple wanted to, it could stop Twitter from being downloaded on iPhones around the world - which would be a devastating blow for Twitter.
Not only that but Apple can also charge what it likes for the privilege of being on the App Store.
For companies like Twitter, it can charge anywhere from 15-30% for in-app purchases.
That charge has been challenged in the US courts by Fortnite producer Epic Games.
In 2021, the company sued over Apple's commission for access to their "walled garden", as the App Store is referred to in the case.
Lastly, Apple has the power to stop advertising on Twitter - an important source of revenue for the company.
Mr Musk isn't the first to flag this power imbalance.
Meta has for years complained about the dominance Apple holds over its Instagram and Facebook apps.
But in Mr Musk, Apple now has another powerful and very rich adversary.
In picking a fight with Apple, Mr Musk is wading into a wider debate over the clout that Apple wields over online activity via its app store, which is the way that iPhone owners download games and other apps.
As it stands, Apple could take up to 30% of the money from the monthly fee Twitter plans to charge some users.
On Twitter, Mr Musk posted a meme saying "pay 30%.
Go To War" with an arrow pointing to the latter.
All companies listed in the app store have to abide by Apple's rules and pay its fees, or face removal or suspension.
Last year Apple suspended social media platform Parler from the store, saying it didn't do enough to remove hate speech.
Apple later restored Parler after the company updated its policies.
A US teenager has been charged as an adult after police say he killed someone and asked an Instagram friend for help getting rid of the body.
Police in Bensalem, Pennsylvania claim a woman told them on Friday that her daughter had received an Instagram video call from an acquaintance.
During the call, the 16-year-old boy "showed the legs and feet of someone covered in blood", police said.
"He then asked for assistance with disposal of the body", they said.
The suspect has been charged with criminal homicide, possessing instruments of crime, and tampering with or fabricating physical evidence.
Police have identified the boy as Joshua Cooper, a resident at a local trailer park.
When they arrived on Friday at the mobile home listed as the suspect's address, a young male was seen running out of the back of the trailer.
Inside, police found a teenage girl lying dead on the bathroom floor with an apparent gunshot wound.
"There were also indications that substantial steps were taken to clean up the crime scene," police said.
The victim's identity and age have not been publicly revealed, but the Philadelphia Inquirer - which acquired an affidavit of the suspect's arrest - reports that she was 13 years old and has been identified by the jewellery she was wearing when she died.
According to the Inquirer, the suspect cleaned out his father's gun safe, including reorganising firearms and sorting through ammunition, before the victim came over to watch a Netflix series together.
Shortly after his arrest, he told police the shooting was "an accident" and that his dad was going to kill him.
Police found the gun safe and a holster without a gun in a back bedroom of the trailer, the Inquirer reported, citing the affidavit.
The suspect has been denied bail and is currently jailed at a local juvenile detention centre.
Facebook owner Meta has been fined €265m (£230m) by Irish regulators.
The Data Protection Commission opened an inquiry into Meta in April 2021, after data from 533 million people in 106 countries was published on a hacking forum having been "scraped" from Facebook years earlier.
The DPC said Meta had breached Europe's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
Meta says it is "reviewing this decision carefully".
"Protecting the privacy and security of people's data is fundamental to how our business works", an official said.
"That's why we have cooperated fully with the Irish Data Protection Commission on this important issue.
"Because this dataset was so large, because there had been previous instances of scraping on the platform where the issues could have been identified in a more timely way, we ultimately imposed a significant sanction," Data Protection Commissioner Helen Dixon told Irish public broadcaster RTÉ.
The feature manipulated to access the data was changed in 2019, after Facebook became aware it was being abused.
The Meta official said the platform had implemented changes to reduce the potential for data to be scraped using phone numbers.
"Unauthorised data scraping is unacceptable and against our rules and we will continue working with our peers on this industry challenge," the official added.
Two months ago, the DPC issued Instagram, also owned by Meta, a record fine for violating children's privacy.
Meta, the company which owns Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp, has been fined €265m (£228m) by the Irish Data Protection Commission (DPC).
The fine is over a data breach that saw the personal details of hundreds of millions of Facebook users published online.
Phone numbers and email addresses of up to 533m users appeared on an online hacking forum.
"Scraping" uses automated software to lift public information from the internet that can then end up being distributed in online forums.
However, the DPC found that Meta was in breach of Article 25 of General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) rules.
"Because this data set was so large, because there had been previous instances of scraping on the platform, where the issues could have been identified in a more timely way, we ultimately imposed a significant sanction," Data Protection Commissioner Helen Dixon said.
"The risks are considerable for individuals in terms of scamming, spamming, smishing, phishing and loss of control over their personal data so we imposed a fine of €265m in total.
As well as the fine, Meta has been issued with a reprimand and an order requiring it to bring its processing into compliance by taking a range of specified remedial actions within a particular timeframe.
A spokesman for the company said: "Protecting the privacy and security of people's data is fundamental to how our business works.
That's why we have cooperated fully with the Irish Data Protection Commission on this important issue.
"We made changes to our systems during the time in question, including removing the ability to scrape our features in this way using phone numbers.
"Unauthorised data scraping is unacceptable and against our rules and we will continue working with our peers on this industry challenge.
We are reviewing this decision carefully.
In September, Meta lodged an appeal in the High Court against a record fine of €405m imposed on Instagram by the DPC.
It was the largest fine ever handed down by the Irish data watchdog and was issued for breaches relating to the processing of children's data.
The troubled crypto firm BlockFi has filed for bankruptcy in the US, as the dramatic collapse of FTX continues to reverberate across the industry.
The company had already halted most activity on its platform, citing "significant exposure" to FTX.
BlockFi said it was seeking court protection to restructure, settle its debts and recover money for investors.
BlockFi had received a rescue deal from FTX earlier this year as the values of cryptocurrencies plunged.
But FTX, a crypto exchange, ran into its own problems this month, as people rushed to pull money from the platform amid doubts about its finances.
Former boss Sam Bankman-Fried, the so-called "crypto king", resigned and the firm declared bankruptcy.
The collapse has shaken faith in the crypto industry and drawn scrutiny from regulators.
BlockFi, which offered loans and other financial services backed by borrowers' crypto assets, described the collapse of FTX as "shocking".
In a court filing, New Jersey-based BlockFi said it owed money to more than 100,000 creditors.
It listed crypto exchange FTX as its second-largest creditor, with $275m owed on a loan extended earlier this year.
It also owes $30m to the US financial regulator, the Securities and Exchange Commission, which earlier this year found the firm had failed to properly register its products and misled the public about the risk levels in its loan portfolio and lending activity.
BlockFi said the Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing would allow the firm to develop a "reorganization plan that maximizes value for all stakeholders, including our valued clients".
The company said it had almost $257m in cash on hand.
"From inception, BlockFi has worked to positively shape the cryptocurrency industry and advance the sector.
BlockFi looks forward to a transparent process that achieves the best outcome for all clients and other stakeholders," said Mark Renzi of Berkeley Research Group, the company's financial advisor.
Founded in 2017, BlockFi had promoted itself as building a bridge between cryptocurrencies and traditional financial products.
It has won hundreds of millions of investment from big-name tech investors, including Bain Capital Ventures and Tiger Global, in recent years.
Last year, as crypto values soared, it said it managed more than $15bn in assets.
It is not the only firm to be hit after cryptocurrency prices plunged earlier this year.
The value of the most well-known digital currency, Bitcoin, dropped from more than $64,000 a year ago to less than $20,000 in June.
Celsius Network and Voyager Digital are among the other firms that have also filed for bankruptcy.
Fashion house Balenciaga has been heavily criticised over a photoshoot showing child models posing with fetish-themed teddy bears.
It faced a huge backlash to the images, released as part of a campaign to promote its Objects range.
This led to pressure on Kim Kardashian - an ambassador for the brand - who put out a statement in response.
Balenciaga's removed the images and says it is taking action over one photoshoot.
Balenciaga is regarded as one of the "world's hottest brands" by some and its luxury goods are a favourite of A-listers and influencers.
But photos from two of its latest campaigns caused people to get angry.
The first was a series of images showing child models posing with the company's plush bear bags.
These teddy bear-inspired accessories look like soft toys - but appear to be wearing leather harnesses and other items associated with bondage fetishes.
Two of the pictures showed young children hugging the backpacks.
Critics then locked on to a second image from an earlier, separate, campaign promoting the brand's collaboration with Adidas.
One of the pictures showed a handbag sitting on top of some documents.
When people zoomed in on the text it revealed the papers were from a US Supreme Court ruling related to indecent images of children.
Balenciaga started posting the images to its social media feeds on 16 November.
They started to go viral, especially in the US among users who object to what they see as "over-sexualising" young children.
As criticism built, a sarcastic tweet from YouTuber June Nicole Lapine gained a lot of traction and Balenciaga deleted all the images a short time later.
After this, some right-wing US media channels ran with the story, and accused the fashion house of "endorsing child pornography".
The accusation was fuelled by the campaign for its Adidas collaboration featuring the case notes referring to "virtual child porn".
Balenciaga posted an apology to its 14 million Instagram followers and said its plush bear bags "should not have been featured with children".
It said it had removed the items from sale and deleted the images from all web platforms.
Photographer Gabriele Galimberti - who shot the Objects campaign featuring the plush bear bags - also released a statement.
The photos were supposed to mimic his Toy Stories series - photos of children around the world posing with their favourite things.
He told followers he had no control over the models or products used in the Balenciaga photos, and pointed out that they were not explicit.
Balenciaga also apologised for displaying "unsettling documents" in the Adidas collaboration campaign.
"The two separate ad campaigns in question reflect a series of grievous errors for which Balenciaga takes responsibility," it said.
The company said it was carrying out investigations and strengthening checks and controls around its creative processes.
It added: "We want to learn from our mistakes and identify ways we can contribute.
Gabriele Galimberti also pointed out that he was not connected to the Adidas photoshoot.
Kim Kardashian was also criticised over the images - or, rather, for staying silent about them.
The reality star is an ambassador for the brand and the two regularly work together - but she did not comment on the scandal until Sunday.
Posting to her Instagram stories and Twitter, she said she had been "shaken by the disturbing images" and "any attempts to normalize child abuse of any kind should have no place in our society — period.
She said her silence was not down to a lack of disgust and outrage, but because she wanted to speak to Balenciaga to "understand for myself how this could have happened.
Commending the brand for removing the campaigns and apologising, she said she was "re-evaluating" her relationship with the company.
But she told followers she believed the brand understood the seriousness of the issue and it would take steps to make sure it would "never happen again".
The Grand Theft Auto franchise has been a phenomenal success since it was first launched exactly 25 years ago, making billions of dollars for its American owner Take-Two Interactive.
So it may come as a surprise to learn that its creators, Dundee-based DMA Design, were far from confident about GTA's prospects as they struggled with creative and technical problems during its development in the 1990s.
Colin Macdonald, who joined DMA a few months before the launch of the action-adventure video game in 1997, explains: "In mid-development, there was an informal staff survey on which of the seven titles they were working on would be the most successful and least successful.
"The one voted most likely not to succeed was Grand Theft Auto.
"That's because, mid-development, the direction of the game wasn't clear.
It was also quite buggy - you couldn't play it for more than a couple of minutes without it crashing, so certainly at grassroots level there wasn't a lot of confidence in it.
Colin, who was to become the producer of GTA 2 and later Channel 4's first games commissioning editor, says the atmosphere at DMA was "quite relaxed" by the time he joined.
"GTA went through a lot of different iterations and was quite a troubled development, and wasn't really regarded well for most of the time it was in production.
"By the time I joined it was pretty much done and the team was actually quite happy because they had kind of got shot of it.
"They were looking forward to sitting back, planning a sequel properly, redoing the things that they weren't happy with, and just looking forward to getting stuck into iterating on it and seeing where else they could take it.
Fans of GTA may also be surprised to learn that the franchise actually stemmed from a technology experiment - with a dinosaur as its central character.
Colin explains: "One of the original founding programmers at DMA, Mike Dailly, was basically doing a tech experiment as a way of showing how buildings could look in 3D from top down with a little bit of perspective.
"So he basically came up with a dinosaur game.
You had this city that moved around in some form of 3D, but you were a dinosaur roaming around and destroying the buildings.
That was what Grand Theft Auto started as.
"He then added in little cars driving around, just to bring the city to life.
"Someone had the bright idea to see what it would be like driving one of the cars rather than controlling the dinosaur and suddenly it changed into a car game, rather than a dinosaur game.
"It was called Race 'n' Chase for a good while.
And then someone realised, 'oh, actually we'll try letting the player get out of the car and run around and jump in and out of other cars'.
"It was really only at that point it morphed into Grand Theft Auto.
Overhauling the original idea brought its own problems, according to Colin.
"When you are changing a game so fundamentally like that, all sorts of problems get introduced.
"You have developed code that is no longer doing what it was originally intended to do.
So there's all sorts of problems - the game gets very buggy and crashes a lot, and the team are feeling like the whole process is completely changing and they are not doing what they originally set out to do.
"But actually, this process of evolving and iterating is what made it feel so dynamic.
"So although it was a very frustrating process for the team, it meant they could see what really worked, iterate on it and give the game a new direction.
"They also had time to polish it, so they started doing things like adding skid marks and shadows and nice sound effects and the radio stations - all of those things that really brought the world to life.
Colin says that although GTA only came together in its final six months of development, there were signs that it could connect with a wide audience.
"The team were playing it in their own lunchtimes, which is always a rare thing.
"After you spend a couple of years developing something, you are usually sick to the back teeth of seeing it - the last thing you want to do is see it again in your spare time.
Colin says the sequel he produced involved making technical changes to make the game more "structurally sound" and moving the game from being set in the contemporary world.
"We wanted to make it feel a little bit more futuristic.
That gave us more creative licence with the vehicles, with the weapons, with the types of environments you would see.
"In hindsight, that probably hasn't resonated with audiences as well as the contemporary vehicles and cities.
Most of the Grand Theft Auto games have gone back to being set more or less in the present day.
Colin adds that despite the franchise's birth pangs, there was a sense within the original team that they were on to something.
"We knew we had something special - the fact that the team were playing it in their own time is a really strong indicator of that - but there are countless games that come out every year that are creatively and technically brilliant but just don't sell particularly well, for whatever reason.
"Most people don't hear about them - they are not quite capturing the zeitgeist of the moment - and Grand Theft Auto could easily have been another one of those.
"It's been quite a surprise to see it still do so well a quarter of a century later.
If you're a regular Netflix watcher or dating app user, you might recognise Cecilie Fjellhøy.
She was one of the unlucky stars of The Tinder Swindler - the streaming giant's hit documentary about fraudster Simon Leviev.
Cecilie is one of the women who says Leviev - real name Shimon Hayut - posed as a wealthy heir to dupe them out of thousands of pounds.
Five years on, the 34-year-old is ready to find love again.
This time she's appearing on Celebs Go Dating, a show where a cast of stars - often from reality TV like Love Island and The Only Way Is Essex - go on dates with non-celebrities.
"I don't feel like a celeb, I don't want people to think that I look at myself as a celeb," says Cecilie, speaking at the series launch.
"But I really appreciate that my face is actually known around the world," she tells Newsbeat.
"And I'm blessed that I'm able to do Celebs Go Dating and show a different side to me.
After sharing her experience, Cecilie is perhaps more optimistic about dating than you might expect.
"Dating for me has always been fun.
And I always try to continue to have fun with it," she says.
Celebs Go Dating is opening her eyes "to new things", she says, before joking: "Because I'm known for picking bad people.
And yes, she even says she's back on Tinder.
"I never looked at Tinder as the one to be blamed for what happened to me because I met him in real life," she says.
"But I think I went a bit too quick back on the apps.
Following The Tinder Swindler's release, Cecilie received a largely sympathetic reaction from viewers, but she was also subjected to misogynistic comments.
She says some in the incel movement - men who refer to themselves as involuntarily celibate - labelled her a "gold digger", and thought she deserved to be scammed.
Cecilie's expecting some backlash to her dating show appearance too.
"Trolling always happens - I've learnt not to read it," she says.
"I think it's important to shine a light on those comments.
"All of these type of things can be dangerous.
It's fun to laugh about it, but it can be dangerous in the long run.
Cecilie campaigns for more awareness surrounding romance fraud - and she says she wants tailored training for police and healthcare professional so victims can feel better supported.
She also wants to help remove some of the stigma surrounding scams, so people feel less ashamed about reaching for help if they are victims.
And she says it's "disheartening" that Leviev is a free man.
"My main thing was never to become a celebrity, it was to get him in jail and keep people protected from people like him," she says.
In 2019, Leviev was convicted of four charges of fraud - unrelated to Cecilie's allegations - and sentenced to 15 months in prison, but he was released after serving only five months.
Leviev told BBC Newsbeat he strongly denied the accusations in The Tinder Swindler.
He's still based in Israel - and Cecilie says she unexpectedly saw him in a beach club in Tel Aviv.
"I just looked at him and he looked at me - I just gave him a little wave and then that's it," she says.
"I'm not scared of him.
Unfortunately, a lot of people are, but he can't hurt me anymore.
"It's very disheartening seeing him out and about.
Leviev claims he reported Cecilie's Tel Aviv visit to Israeli police and accused her of harassing him.
He was sentenced in Finland in 2015 for defrauding three women.
Cecilie says she still gets DMs from a range of people, young and old, sharing their stories of romance fraud.
But she does have advice to share if you suspect you're being scammed.
"If you're thinking or wondering, reach out to either family, friends, tell them about what you're experiencing," she says.
She advises contacting the bank as "they're not your enemy".
"And that's why it's dangerous.
And when you realise you've been defrauded: go to the police, go to your bank.
In a windswept corner of a military site on Salisbury Plain a small aircraft jet engine is undergoing tests that could one day lead to huge changes within the aviation industry.
The engine itself is almost completely conventional.
It is a Rolls-Royce AE-2100A gas turbine, a design used widely on regional aeroplanes around the world.
What is wholly unusual about it is the fuel being used.
This is the first time a modern aircraft engine has ever been run on hydrogen.
Devoid of bodywork, with its intricate wiring and pipework exposed, it sits securely fastened to a sturdy test rig, while engineers cluster around an array of screens in the control room, a safe distance away.
The tests are being carried out by Rolls-Royce, after development work in Derby and in partnership with the airline easyJet.
The immediate aim is a simple one - to show that it is possible to run and control a jet engine using hydrogen fuel, rather than conventional aviation fuels.
In the longer term, the plan is for hydrogen power to play a major role in allowing the aviation industry to continue growing, while cutting climate change emissions dramatically.
"The reason we're looking at hydrogen is really the drive for Net Zero," explains Alan Newby, director of aerospace technology at Rolls-Royce.
"Normally we would run this thing on kerosene.
Kerosene is a hydrocarbon and therefore produces carbon dioxide when it burns.
"The beauty of looking at a fuel like hydrogen is that it doesn't contain any carbon and, therefore, when it burns it produces no CO2".
The project is being supported by easyJet, which has contributed several million pounds towards the initial trials.
The company believes that hydrogen power offers the best route to reducing emissions from short haul aviation.
"We started a few years ago looking at what might power the aircraft of the future," explains David Morgan, easyJet's chief operating officer.
"We looked at battery technology, and it was quite clear that the battery technology was probably not going to do it for the large commercial aircraft that we fly.
"We've come to the conclusion that hydrogen is a very exciting proposition for us.
The advantage of hydrogen over batteries is that it provides much more power per kilogram.
Batteries are simply too heavy to power larger planes.
Yet hydrogen aviation remains a very long way off.
The tests carried out so far have simply shown that a jet engine using hydrogen can be started up and run at low speed.
But to go from there to building a wholly new engine, capable of powering a passenger aircraft safely will take a great deal more research - and significant investment.
The aircraft themselves will also need to be redesigned.
Hydrogen, even in liquid form, takes up about four times as much space as the kerosene required to fly the same distance.
To make it into a liquid in the first place, it needs to be cooled to -253C.
Then, before being burned, it must be turned back into a gas.
"There's a big change from the aircraft point of view," says Alan Newby at Rolls-Royce.
"They're going to have to have a tank containing the hydrogen.
You've got to keep it at this really, really cold temperature.
"Then there's the issue of how you feed it through to the engine as well.
The fuel used in the tests is so-called green hydrogen produced at the European Marine Energy Centre in the Orkney Islands.
It is made by using an electric current to split water into its components, hydrogen and oxygen.
The electricity required is produced using tidal and wind power.
This makes it a very clean fuel.
But most of the hydrogen produced for industrial use today is obtained from a process which involves mixing high temperature steam with natural gas under high pressure.
However, this produces a considerable amount of carbon dioxide, which is then released into the atmosphere.
It also requires a considerable amount of energy - which is often provided by burning fossil fuels.
One alternative is what's known as blue hydrogen.
This is produced in the same way, but the carbon dioxide is captured and either stored or reused.
In theory, this should make it a cleaner, low-carbon fuel.
But that view was challenged in a paper from researchers at Cornell and Stanford universities last year.
They suggested that in fact, using blue hydrogen could still be more harmful to the planet than burning fossil fuels.
"At the moment there's a lot of hydrogen hype," says Matt Finch, UK policy director of campaign group Transport and Environment.
"A lot of people are saying 'we can use hydrogen, we need hydrogen'.
You hear it for cars, for trucks, for ships, for planes, for home heating, for chemicals.
"At the moment the UK effectively produces zero green hydrogen.
To fulfil all the needs everyone wants is absolutely impossible.
Mr Finch believes this means supplies of green hydrogen will probably have to be rationed for decades to come, and he says aviation may not be a priority for governments.
All of this means it is likely to be decades before zero-emission hydrogen planes become an everyday reality.
Even then, they are likely to be confined to short haul markets, at least to begin with.
On long haul routes, synthetic sustainable fuels are widely expected to offer a more practical solution.
Nevertheless, these first tests on Salisbury Plain may one day be seen as the first, tentative steps towards a technological revolution in the industry.
The encouragement of self-harm will be criminalised in an update to the Online Safety Bill, the government has said.
Content that encourages someone to harm themselves will be targeted in a new offence, making it illegal.
Culture Secretary Michelle Donelan said she was strengthening the bill "to make sure these vile acts are stamped out".
"I am determined that the abhorrent trolls encouraging the young and vulnerable to self-harm are brought to justice," she said.
Molly Russell, from Harrow in north-west London, took her own life after viewing suicide and self-harm content on Instagram and Pinterest.
Her father has previously criticised delays to the Online Safety Bill and called for online platforms to stop self-regulating their content.
At the inquest in September, the coroner concluded the schoolgirl died while suffering from the "negative effects of online content".
In October, Coroner Andrew Walker wrote to social media firms and the government to call for changes, including separate platforms for adults and children.
Ms Donelan said social media firms could no longer be "silent bystanders" and they would face fines for "allowing this abusive and destructive behaviour to continue".
She said the update to the Online Safety Bill would create a new offence, bringing self-harm content in line with communications that encourage suicide - which is already illegal.
The amendment would mean social media platforms would be required to remove self-harm content and any person found to have posted such content would face prosecution.
More details about the maximum penalty would be published in due course, the government said.
The NSPCC's Richard Collard said it was "good news" the government was recognising the dangers of children being exposed to online content promoting self-harm.
But he said a "culture of compliance and accountability" from technology firms that have allowed this type of content "to spread like wild fire" was needed.
Amanda Stephens, whose son Olly was stabbed to death in Reading in 2021 by teenagers who plotted his killing across numerous social media platforms, called the amendment to the Online Safety Bill "positive news".
"Just because something's hard, shouldn't mean that it stops us wanting to push forward," said Ms Stephens.
"At the end of the day, our children are losing their lives; we're losing them from our lives.
It's wrong - and we need to, as quickly as possible, but in the best possible way - move forward and I can't stress how strongly I feel about this.
The bill is due to return to Parliament in early December, following a number of delays.
The digital department said it could not say when the amendments would be tabled.
Earlier this week the government announced other new offences being added to the bill that would crack down on the sharing of intimate images without consent.
Representatives from both Pinterest and Meta, Instagram's parent company, gave evidence during Molly Russell's inquest.
Meta executive Elizabeth Lagone said she believed posts seen by Molly, which her family say "encourage" suicide, were safe, but the firm agreed that regulation was needed.
Judson Hoffman of Pinterest told the inquest the site was "not safe" when the school girl was using it.
The company said it was "committed" to making ongoing improvements to help ensure the platform is "safe for everyone".
Deputy Prime Minister and Justice Secretary Dominic Raab said "lives and families" had been destroyed by "those who encourage vulnerable internet users to self-harm".
"Our changes will ensure the full force of the law applies to those callous and reckless individuals who try to manipulate the vulnerable online in this way," Mr Raab said.
And there are obvious questions about how effective it will be.
Are police going to prosecute a distressed child for posting pictures of their own self-harm scars? Does this clause weigh the law disproportionately against the individual rather than the platforms?.
Might this particular clause have helped Molly? It's hard to know.
Coroner Andrew Walker concluded that Molly was likely affected by the dark and depressing content and that some posts "romanticised" acts of self-harm.
The Molly Rose Foundation - set up in her memory - today said it "appears a significant move".
But I spoke to Molly's father Ian last week about the progress of the Online Safety Bill.
He said years of campaigning "have led me to not believe in anyone's words but instead judge them by their actions, because it's only when a positive step is taken will I believe it".
It would have been Molly's birthday today.
She would have been 20 years old.
Esports - or competitive gaming - is nothing new.
It was a pilot event at this year's Commonwealth Games and has risen in popularity in recent years.
But, for many, the idea of studying it at college may seem bizarre, and conjure up thoughts of teenagers holed up in their bedrooms drinking energy drinks and staring at screens.
However, Belfast Metropolitan College is launching a foundation degree in esports and hopes to dispel myths.
"People think that all we do is sit around playing games all day, it would be great if that were the case but it's not," said Graham Norrie, who was part of the first cohort.
"It's about learning and getting ready for the industry that's behind it.
Esports, also known as electronic sports, is a competition between video game players involving a variety of games from football and basketball, to more fantasy-themed games.
"My parents were sceptical [about the course], as was I, but they understood that esports was something I was very passionate about and they wanted me to do something I enjoy," added Graham.
"Esports has just been a thing for my entire life, you ask any anyone in the country, my age and lower, they are playing games.
Fellow student Josh Donnelly was unaware of the potential career opportunities available before he started the course.
"I could go into streaming or videoing events, which technically is not what you think of when you say a career in esports," the 19 year old told BBC News NI.
"It's not just about being good at games, there's a lot of learning, it's so in-depth and you actually learn.
Course co-ordinator Michael Smyth managed Northern Ireland's team at the Commonwealth Esports Championships in the summer.
He had been lecturing in computing when he raised the idea of starting a BTec in esports with management.
"I sort of said: 'Look there is definitely an increased demand for the skills out there as it is one of the fastest growing industries in the world'," he told BBC News NI.
"It was a case of wanting to jump on the train before we missed out on the opportunity to be the first in Northern Ireland to offer it.
The course went from taking 20 students in its first year to 40 in the second, but Michael admits there was some resistance from parents.
"I just tell them it's a mixed bag of everything.
"They get taught everything in the curriculum but in a way that they enjoy.
He added: "We've had students go on to do different things.
They've gone on to work for Netflix and broadcasting, obviously there is a lot of TV and films filmed round here.
"We've had ones go into coaching and management in sport, and in esports as well.
We have even had one go on to be a professional boxer.
Chris Caves, 19, who had been coaching a semi-professional esports team for six months before staring the course, said the course is "just learning more traditional subjects, but in a way that focuses on the esports industry so it makes it more interesting because it's something that we're interested in".
"I mean there is even gym work, which is basically like PE, because health and wellbeing is so important, which my dad constantly jokes about.
Lewis Shields, 21, added that the course has been a real "eye opener" to the business world surrounding esports.
"There are aspects of business that I didn't even think would be part of it.
I've learned so much about it and that's what I love.
The US has banned the sale and import of new communications equipment from five Chinese companies, including Huawei and ZTE, amid concerns over national security.
Other companies listed include Hikvision, Dahua and Hytera, which make video surveillance equipment and two-way radio systems.
It is the first time US regulators have taken such a move on security grounds.
Hikvision said that its products present no security threat to the US.
It said the decision "will do nothing to protect US national security, but will do a great deal to make it more harmful and more expensive for US small businesses, local authorities, school districts, and individual consumers to protect themselves, their homes, businesses and property.
Huawei and others have previously denied supplying data to the Chinese government.
The US Federal Communications Commission (FCC) said its members had voted unanimously on Friday to adopt the new rules.
"The FCC is committed to protecting our national security by ensuring that untrustworthy communications equipment is not authorised for use within our borders," the commission's chairwoman Jessica Rosenworcel said in a statement.
"These new rules are an important part of our ongoing actions to protect the American people from national security threats involving telecommunications," she added.
Because the ban is not retroactive, the firms listed can continue to sell products previously approved for sale in the US.
But the FCC said it is seeking comment on future revisions to the rules regarding equipment already authorised to be imported or sold, meaning it is possible existing authorisations could also be revoked in the future.
The restrictions in the US are the latest levied against Chinese tech firms following spying concerns, which US officials have become increasingly wary of in recent years.
Under Barack Obama's administration, actions designed to limit Chinese telecoms firms' access to the US market first took root.
They were then accelerated during the presidency of Donald Trump and have continued under current US President Joe Biden's rule.
If something looks too good to be true, it probably is.
That was the message from Kenya's foreign affairs ministry when it warned job seekers who were attracted by the promise of greener pastures in south-east Asia.
It follows the rescue of more than 60 Kenyans from Myanmar and Laos over the last few months - after the sales and customer service jobs they applied for in Thailand turned out to be a cover for cyber-crime, prostitution and even organ theft.
"Already one young Kenyan has died as a result of a botched operation by quack doctors operating in the Chinese-run factories in Myanmar," the ministry said last week.
I spoke to two women about their recent experiences.
Requesting anonymity, a 31-year-old, who has a a diploma in hotel management, and a 35-year-old high school graduate told me how they had left for jobs in Thailand in August with a promise of a monthly salary of $800 (£675).
A month before their departure they each had borrowed nearly $2,000 to pay their agents for the trip and underwent a short training session.
Yet upon arrival in Thailand their handlers took them on a long journey by road, eventually crossing a river into neighbouring Laos.
They ended up in a 15-storey building, which became their full-time residence - although they did not know in which town or city they were located.
It was here they learnt that instead of customer service roles, they were there to engage in cyber-crime activities - namely to target Americans by creating enticing profiles on Tinder, Instagram and Facebook.
"They fall in love with you and you can tell them about crypto-currency.
You start stealing from them," the 31-year-old woman said, describing in Swahili how they were both forced to work in a vast call centre-like hall with hundreds of others made up of a variety of nationalities.
Neither of them received their promised salary and instead were threatened with sex work or organ harvesting if they failed to lure enough victims online.
"As a woman you may be forced into sex trafficking.
If that does not work they may harvest your organs and sell them to refund their costs," she explained, her companion assenting as she spoke.
Luckily the pair managed to make online contact with Awareness Against Human Trafficking (Haart), a Kenyan charity that helps migrants in trouble, and they were eventually rescued and flown home with the help of UN and Kenyan authorities.
Their story matches that of other Kenyans held in what the foreign ministry has called "fraud factories" and "forced labour camps" where "their passports are normally confiscated and remain under the custody of the criminal gang".
It said even though many of the recruitment agents were wanted by the police, they were still advertising non-existent jobs in Thailand and Kenyans continued to fall prey to the scams.
Some of those rescued had returned home on crutches with broken limbs "after being severely beaten by up to 20 gang members operating in the factories".
According to the latest foreign ministry statement, some of the Kenyans in Myanmar appear to be in Kachin state, where rebel separatists are fighting the military - something that was hampering rescue efforts.
"Recent army operations killed over 60 people in the area controlled by rebel groups, who provide protection to the Chinese cartels," the ministry warned.
In total 76 victims, including 10 Ugandans and one Burundian, have been repatriated since August with the help of officials at Kenya's embassy in Thailand.
It is young and educated Africans who were being targeted by the cartels as they are considered best to able to undertake the cybercrime work.
This points to the dire lack of employment opportunities on the continent and how successive governments promise jobs to their people but fail to deliver.
The African Development Bank estimates that while more than 12 million young people enter the workforce in Africa each year, only three million formal jobs are created annually.
According to research by the Mo Ibrahim Foundation, 80% of Africans who leave the continent - especially those heading towards Europe - do so looking for work.
Those who are lucky enough to find jobs are able to send money home to support family members.
Yet all too frequently they end up in difficult situations.
The revelations of the south-east Asia job scams follow continuing reports of the mistreatment of African migrants in the Middle East.
The two young women I spoke to are now left with huge debts - and are in a worse situation than they were five months ago.
The 35-year-old has found work in a hair salon, but her companion has yet to find another job.
The tumult has brought into sharper focus some of the platform's failings.
Like all social networks, Twitter has long grappled with problems regarding privacy, hate speech and abuse.
But for some of its roughly 300 million monthly users, it has also been a place where they have built businesses, found love, launched campaigns and raised awareness for issues that are important to them.
I spoke to three women who say being on Twitter changed their lives for the better.
I didn't start out looking for romance.
But what I did use Twitter for was support, it's quite an isolating thing going through a divorce.
And you can of course talk to real-life friends and family, but sometimes they're a little bit too close.
Sometimes it's just very useful to have a sounding board.
You can have a vent and a rant.
And there's somebody there who will either be sympathetic or maybe tell you off, but you will definitely get a reaction, and probably some quite honest feedback as well.
I started off really using Twitter as a bit of a diary.
Along the way, I found lots of people who were going through the same thing or had been through the same thing, and had useful information or advice.
As far as the romance side of it goes, really that came out of friendships I'd made on Twitter.
I like music and I got chatting to people about it.
One of those people eventually ended up being my partner.
But it did start out in friendship, a shared love of music and general chit-chat.
There's so many people out there that I feel very, very strongly about even though we've never met, which does sound a bit weird.
Online friends are a different sort of friend from real-life friends, but they're really important.
I feel like I couldn't have got through the last couple of years without those people.
I'm very positive about Twitter, I think it can be an absolute force for good.
Twitter has changed my life, I can't believe I'm actually saying that but it's true.
I've gone from being on my own and going through divorce, to feeling that I've met the love of my life.
I would never have met him if it hadn't been for Twitter.
I feel really, really lucky.
Twitter has been amazing.
I've got 18,400 followers, so I've got a real audience for my work.
But it's also been really supportive.
People have been with me on my journey.
I was made redundant in Covid - this was my side hustle and then it became my full-time job.
I also met my husband on Twitter.
I've got brand ambassadors now on Twitter who retweet me, I've got repeat customers.
I've worked with some amazing people.
Tim Burgess from the band The Charlatans contacted me one day and said, "I really like your work".
And then he asked me to design a turntable for him.
So we designed a limited-edition turntable - it was brilliant.
I get a lot of traffic from Twitter.
I do have Instagram, but the algorithms and engagement make it more difficult to get people to look at your work.
I'm really worried about what's happening [since Elon Musk took over] because like I say, a lot of my business and support comes from Twitter.
If Twitter went, I'd have to build my business elsewhere, and I don't know where that would be to get the same engagement and orders.
And at that point, the idea of having a day celebrating women in Stem - well it was just an idea.
I didn't have any resources or any way to reach people.
Twitter was the obvious solution.
In all honesty, I don't think Ada Lovelace Day would have become the movement that it did without the help of Twitter.
We have 40% of our audience in the UK, and about 40% in North America.
The other 20% is in about 150 countries around the world.
So we have followers from across South America, Africa, Asia, it has allowed us to reach people in countries where the media isn't going to pick us up.
With a bit of care, it has been possible to curate an experience on Twitter that is generally pleasant.
Obviously, there is always the opportunity for things to go wrong.
I have experienced the Twitter pile-on - not quite becoming the main character thankfully, but adjacent to it - and that is never pleasant.
But overall, I think it has been a positive experience for me and I am grateful to Twitter for allowing Ada Lovelace Day to flourish in the way that it has.
I see other organisations for women in Stem and all sorts of other things that exist because Twitter connects them with their community and their audience in a way that other tools just don't.
I just don't see the same level of engagement on Facebook or LinkedIn for example.
I think Twitter is interesting, it's unique in its properties, and I would be really heartbroken if it did break permanently or if we saw a huge drop off in numbers.
A planned new law would make sharing pornographic deepfakes without consent a crime in England and Wales.
Tackling the rise in manipulated images, where a person's face is put on someone else's body, is part of a crackdown on the abuse of intimate pictures in the Online Safety Bill.
This law would also make it easier to charge people with sharing intimate photos without consent.
Prosecutors would no longer need to prove they intended to cause distress.
In some cases under the existing law, men have admitted sharing women's intimate images without consent, but have not been prosecuted because they said they did not intend to cause any harm.
The government says around one in 14 adults in England and Wales say they have been threatened with their intimate images being shared against their will.
It also says there are growing global concerns about technology being used to create fake pornographic images and video, with one website which creates nude images from clothed ones receiving 38 million visits last year.
In August, BBC Panorama exposed a network of men on the social media site Reddit who traded women's nudes online - including some which had been faked - as well as harassing and threatening the women.
The Law Commission said reporting such as this, along with campaigners' calls for stronger laws, helped to make a "compelling case" to government for reform.
It outlined recommendations earlier this year to ensure all examples of deliberately taking or sharing intimate images without consent are illegal.
The government said some of these - including specific laws against "downblousing", installing hidden cameras, and threatening to share someone's intimate images - would be dealt with in future legislation, but it did not offer any timescale.
Prime Minister Rishi Sunak had promised to criminalise downblousing, a term for taking photos down a woman's top without her consent, in this summer's Tory leadership contest.
The move would bring it in line with an earlier law against "upskirting".
Announcing the measures, Justice Secretary Dominic Raab said the government accepted there were gaps in the law and it needed to adapt to the changing use of technology.
He said he wanted to "give women and girls the confidence that the justice system is on their side and will really come down like a ton of bricks on those who abuse or intimidate them".
Ayesha - not her real name - told Panorama in August how videos secretly filmed by a partner and faked images of her were being shared on Reddit, driving her to try to take her own life.
She told the BBC that the new announcement gave her hope that police could take action and the harassment she experienced would finally end.
"It will make a massive change to my life and to many other lives as well.
We'll be actually able to live and to breathe in peace without having to be scared," she said.
Kate Isaacs, who told a BBC documentary last month how she was targeted by deepfake creators after campaigning against non-consensual porn, says tackling the issue requires more than a change in the law.
"I think it's deeply rooted in society at this point.
The technology is running 1,000 miles quicker than we are," she told BBC Radio 4's Today programme on Friday.
She said even for an seasoned campaigner on this issue, having her own image and her identity violated by deepfakers had been a frightening experience.
"I had given advice to so many survivors on what you should do if you become a victim of this crime.
But I just froze, and didn't follow any of my own advice.
I think it was just too scary to comprehend and process at the time," she said.
One deepfake porn creator told the BBC earlier this year that the risk of prosecution could make him stop.
"If I could be traced online I would stop there and probably find another hobby," he said.
The Ministry of Justice also said it was looking at whether it could give the victims of intimate image abuse the same anonymity as the victims of sexual offences are granted, in line with the Law Commission's recommendations.
Prof Clare McGlynn at Durham University, an expert in image-based sexual abuse, told the BBC the changes were "a testament to the courage of women who have been speaking up", but added that it was "absolutely vital that anonymity is granted immediately".
"Victims tell us that not being able to be anonymous means they are more reluctant to report to the police and it means cases are more often dropped," she said.
Elon Musk says Twitter will provide a "general amnesty" to some suspended accounts from next week.
This came after he started a poll on Wednesday asking Twitter users whether accounts that had "not broken the law or engaged in egregious spam" should be let back on the social media platform.
Several accounts, such as that of former US President Donald Trump, have already been reinstated by Mr Musk.
"The people have spoken.
He also used a Latin phrase which translates to "the voice of the people is the voice of God".
Mr Musk did not give details on how the amnesty process would be carried out.
On Saturday, he reinstated the account of Donald Trump, after running a poll in which users narrowly backed the move.
But the former US president may not return to the platform, as he said "I don't see any reason for it".
His Twitter account was suspended in 2021 on grounds that it risked inciting violence, after Trump supporters had stormed the US Capitol.
Mr Musk has also reactivated the Twitter accounts of rapper Ye (formerly Kanye West) and influencer Andrew Tate.
However, the multi-billionaire said conspiracy theorist Alex Jones would not be allowed to return to Twitter.
Mr Musk wrote that his own child had died, and that he "had no mercy" for anyone who "would use the deaths of children for gain, politics or fame".
Previously he said no decision about banned accounts would be made until a moderation board had been appointed.
Mr Musk completed his $44bn purchase of Twitter on 28 October after months of wrangling.
He has since laid off half of the firm's 7,500-strong workforce, and hundreds more staff are believed to have left, following an email saying that long hours and "hardcore" work would be required of those who remained.
In 2017, he said he wouldn't have become president without it.
"Twitter is a wonderful thing for me, because I get the word out… I might not be here talking to you right now as president if I didn't have an honest way of getting the word out," he said.
After Twitter's new owner Elon Musk reversed Mr Trump's permanent suspension, you might have thought the former president would jump at the chance to come back.
But so far, he hasn't taken up that offer.
Well, only Donald Trump knows the answer to that question for sure.
But what we do know is he has a lot of money to lose from tweeting.
"The simplest explanation is the most likely - it's about money," says Josh Tucker, professor of politics at New York University (NYU).
After Donald Trump was kicked off Twitter, he created his own social media platform called Truth Social - that looks an awful lot like Twitter.
To understand the financial bind Donald Trump is in, you have to understand the complex nature of Truth Social's business set up.
Last year, the private company that owns Truth Social, Trump Media & Technology Group (TMTG), announced its intention to merge with a shell company trading on the stock exchange called Digital World Acquisition Corp (DWAC).
DWAC is what's known as a Special Purpose Acquisition Company (Spac).
Spacs are hyped as a way to speed up the often slow process of taking a private company public.
In simple terms, it means merging a company that isn't on a stock exchange with one that is.
Both TMTG and DWAC have agreed to merge, though the deal has not yet been completed.
But that hasn't stopped investors piling money into DWAC - all of them speculating that the deal will go through.
The shell company is currently valued at more than $800m (£665m).
Considering DWAC would only be acquiring about a quarter of TMTG, Mr Trump's newly merged company would be worth at least $3-4bn, says Michael Ohlrogge, an academic specialising in Spacs.
"He would own the vast majority.
He would own probably 70 or 80% of it.
If it all goes through, it would make this business venture one of the most successful of Donald Trump's career.
But the key to keeping stock value high is making sure that the former president stays on Truth Social - and exclusively so.
It's hard to see what Truth Social has going for it without Donald Trump.
The social media company was created by him.
Why should even his supporters use the platform if he is posting elsewhere?.
Truth Social is already struggling to attract users.
For a social media company, that is tiny.
Similar Web estimates that Twitter had nine billion site visits in September.
If Donald Trump were to stop posting, or do it elsewhere, he could potentially tank the share price of DWAC, wiping hundreds of millions of dollars off its value.
So important was Donald Trump's exclusivity with Truth Social to the proposed merger with DWAC, that a legal provision was placed in the agreement.
It states that "President Trump is generally obligated to make any social media post on Truth Social and may not make the same post on another social media site for 6 hours.
It means that not only could Donald Trump lose a lot of money by using Twitter (by spooking investors) but he could also get sued.
"It's hard to say for sure who would win, but it wouldn't be a completely crazy suit to try to bring," says Ohlrogge.
It means Donald Trump is now in a quandary.
He might want to go back to Twitter.
But he is financially - not to mention legally - incentivised not to.
There are, however, other factors at play that could lead to him tweeting once more.
For starters, DWAC's share price has behaved in very strange ways recently.
Rather than it simply being a place where people can de facto invest in Truth Social, people have been purchasing DWA shares as a way of investing in the former president himself.
"It's a meme stock," says Michael Klausner, Professor of Law at Stanford University.
Meme stocks are companies that have lots of small investors who are online or social media followers, who can drive the share price up and down.
Klausner says many who have invested in DWAC are Mr Trump's own supporters.
"They think that Trump's name attached to something is going to be valuable," he says.
It means DWAC's share price goes up when Donald Trump's fortunes are on the rise, and down when they are taking a turn for the worse.
But nine days later, when he finally confirmed the news in a speech that was criticised as "low energy" - the stock price fell.
The theory here is that although DWAC is merging with Truth Social, what it's really doing is giving Donald Trump an opportunity to float himself - his personal brand - on the stock exchange.
If that is the case, it wouldn't matter so much if Mr Trump were to stop using Truth Social - as the social media company is only a proxy for the man himself.
For Josh Tucker from NYU, the situation raises interesting moral questions.
"I have never personally heard of something like this before - that there is a large amount of money tracking what seems to be the political fortunes of a politician.
He warns that a politician might go on to make decisions based not on what is good for their political aspirations, but their financial ones instead.
"If you're a Republican, you might want your Republican nominee to use the media to the best of their ability," he says.
Tucker argues that if Republicans were to elect Donald Trump as their presidential nominee, they would expect him to utilise wider social media in campaigning - rather than just limiting himself to one platform for financial gain.
But Donald Trump may have anticipated this problem.
Buried in the merger agreement there is another provision that allows him to use other social media platforms for "political messaging".
It may be a "loophole", says Klausner, that would allow Trump to tweet without breaching the contract.
Not only that, but Mr Trump is only bound by the agreement to post exclusively on Truth Social until July 2023, says Ohlrogge.
"My reading is after that point [legally] he'd be able post directly on Twitter, without posting first on Truth Social," he says.
There is another reason to think Donald Trump might come back onto Twitter.
The merger itself is currently under Federal investigation.
The deal could still fall through, at which point Donald Trump's legal commitment to post exclusively on Truth Social would also be ripped up.
Mr Trump might lose money, but it would open the door still wider for a Twitter return.
As with many of Mr Trump's financial affairs, it's complicated.
And Donald Trump is not a person who is easy to predict.
But what we do know is that were he to stick with Truth Social exclusively, and complete the Spac merger, he would likely earn a small fortune.
It's hard to see how that's not a major factor in his thinking.
Will that calculation change as we get closer to an election?.
But for now, Mr Trump says he's staying put.
Dark wood for the desks - no white melamine, definitely not.
And it has to be wheelchair-friendly.
That's what Jane Brearley, chief executive and founder of start-up Intent Health, had in mind when she was setting up her firm's new office in central London.
Accessibility and aesthetics were key - but it didn't matter if the desks and chairs had already been used by someone else.
That just meant they came at a bargain price.
"I probably saved about 19, 20 grand by kitting out with second-hand furniture," she says.
The pandemic caused a huge shift in working practices.
While some have fully embraced working from home, others are returning to the office, perhaps part-time.
As a result, many companies are downsizing central offices and that means a glut of second-hand desks, chairs and filing cabinets is available to those who want them.
In Dr Brearley's case, the new office is sometimes empty since her staff choose to work from home much of the time - but she argues it's worth having anyway.
"I have young people on the team who are working out of their bedroom or from their kitchen in a flat share, it's really important that they have a place they can go," she explains, adding that the office is useful for training, too.
Some of Dr Brearley's colleagues use wheelchairs so it was important to find furniture that would meet everyone's needs and also allow for plenty of space in the office.
She was able to source desks, chairs, meeting room equipment and personal lockers from multiple second-hand suppliers.
The only thing she struggled to find was sofas, so those came new.
A wide variety of organisations are in the market for second-hand office furniture these days.
Even former Prime Minister Liz Truss turned to pre-used kit for her campaign office, according to the firm that says it was the supplier.
Besides cost, organisations are also attracted by the idea that re-using furniture is more environmentally friendly, on the whole, than buying it new, says Adrian Preston, managing director of WantDontWant.
"There's so much in the news about reusing, recycling now.
They want to be seen to be doing the right thing," he explains.
Mr Preston's firm brokers the sale of second-hand furniture between his clients and the companies that are offloading it, rather than stocking large volumes himself.
However, one thing he never bothers with is window blinds: "They're a nightmare because they're bespoke to the windows they come from and they're dusty, dirty and grubby.
Simon Ward, sales manager at CK Office Furniture says, "We're seeing companies downsizing because of the new working practices, reducing square footage of their offices and therefore trying to clear furniture.
It means his firm has the pick of the quality it wants, he adds, noting that second-hand stock is particularly popular with home workers and small firms or start-ups.
The market is certainly very active at the moment, says Karl Ward - no relation - managing director of ORS, another second-hand furniture retailer: "We've just had the busiest quarter we've ever had, by quite some distance.
There is sometimes a long wait for new furniture, and this has been a particular problem during the pandemic, he notes.
"I've got about 4,500 desks in stock," says Mr Ward.
"If companies want 50 or 60 chairs and they want them tomorrow, they can have them tomorrow.
Retailers who spoke to the BBC suggested that the most popular items tend to be desks, chairs and filing cabinets.
But you can be more imaginative, if you want.
Mr Ward of ORS mentions that a few months ago he sold a luxury six-by-two metre marble boardroom table, which he says was "the best boardroom table I've ever seen".
Brand new it would have cost £65,000, he estimates.
Mr Preston has also shifted some unusual items - including a climbing wall and 100 biscuit tins shaped like Stormtrooper helmets from Star Wars.
"I bought four of those for my office as well," he adds.
While some second-hand furniture comes in great condition, it does occasionally require refurbishment as well.
Sam Coggin, company director of The Coggin Group says his company specialises in this.
With tired office chairs, for example, his team can replace stiff casters or worn-out gas lifts, the devices that allow people to adjust the height of a chair seat.
Mr Coggin and his colleagues can also repaint legwork on desks or cut them down to a smaller size and refinish them.
Currently, the firm is resizing around 200 desks for one client who found they were too big for their office.
The idea is to keep as much of the item in use as possible and process any removed materials for recycling - including plastics, metals and foam.
"If we can keep 80 to 90% of the product original and just replace parts that wear down… it does bring them back to a like-new standard," says Mr Coggin.
Someone who turned to second-hand furniture with a very specific purchase in mind, and found what she wanted, is Liana Fricker, founder of accelerator The Inspiration Space.
When her husband's firm sent a well-engineered office chair to their house during the pandemic, she realised it was exactly what she wanted - very comfortable and good for her back, too.
She soon found the same model second-hand online and snapped it up.
"I picked up a chair that would have cost me about £1,500 for like £460," she says.
Delivery was included, too.
Besides enjoying the process of hunting for the chair she wanted, she adds that she appreciates the opportunity to contribute to the circular economy - where products are re-used or recycled wherever possible.
"It boils down to the environment," she says.
"If we're buying second-hand goods, we'll send a signal to the market that we don't want cheap, disposable items anymore.
Mercedes-Benz is to offer an online subscription service in the US to make its electric cars speed up quicker.
For an annual cost of $1,200 (£991) excluding tax, the company will enable some of its vehicles to accelerate from 0-60mph a second faster.
It comes after rival manufacturer BMW offered a subscription feature earlier this year - for heated seats.
Mercedes has confirmed to BBC News it currently does not plan to introduce "Acceleration Increase" in the UK.
It will be available for purchase in the US on the Mercedes-EQ EQE 350 and EQS 450 vehicles, as well as their SUV counterparts.
According to the Mercedes US online store, the feature "electronically increases" the output of the car's motor, as well as the torque.
Jack McKeown, Association of Scottish Motoring Writers president and motoring editor of the Courier newspaper, in Dundee, said Mercedes's new feature was "unsurprising but dispiriting".
"When you pay a monthly subscription for a phone or for broadband, you're paying for the company to supply and maintain a data network," he said.
"Mercedes is asking you to pay for hardware it has already installed in the car - and which it presumably already made a profit margin on when you bought the car.
"Trying to leverage even more profit out of subscription services is a worrying trend and I hope there is a consumer backlash against it.
In July, BMW faced a backlash when it announced customers could pay £25 per month to unlock heated seats and steering wheels in their cars.
And in December 2021, Toyota announced it would charge some drivers $8 per month to remotely start their cars using a key fob.
The Acceleration Increase subscription is listed as "coming soon" on the US Mercedes storefront, with no exact date given for its release.
Detectives have begun contacting 70,000 people suspected of being victims of a sophisticated banking scam.
The Metropolitan Police is sending text messages to mobile phone users it believes spoke with fraudsters pretending to be their bank.
Met Commissioner Sir Mark Rowley described an "enormous endeavour" in gathering evidence after the discovery of an online fraud network.
There have been more than 100 arrests so far, and one man has been charged.
People who receive a text message in the next 24 hours will be directed to the Action Fraud website to register their details as officers build cases against suspects.
Sir Mark told BBC Radio 4's Today programme the Met was contacting mobile numbers that were connected to the fraudsters for longer than a minute, suggesting a fraud or attempted fraud had taken place.
The scam involved fraudsters calling people at random, pretending to be a bank and warning of suspicious activity on their account.
They would pose as employees of banks including Barclays, Santander, HSBC, Lloyds, Halifax, First Direct, NatWest, Nationwide and TSB.
The fraudsters would then encourage people to disclose security information and, through technology, they may have accessed features such as one-time passcodes to clear accounts of funds.
As many as 200,000 people in the UK may have been victims of the scam, police said, with victims losing thousands of pounds, and in one case £3m.
The 70,000 people being contacted are connected to calls made by individuals known to police, Sir Mark said, and their evidence could be used to prosecute cases.
Genuine messages from police will be sent on Thursday or Friday, detectives said.
They said the messages would direct victims to the Metropolitan Police website which would ask people to register with Action Fraud.
Any other texts should be regarded as fraudulent themselves.
The mammoth cyber fraud operation began when police in the Netherlands bugged a website that allowed fraudsters to make anonymous phone calls from spoof numbers, posing as bank employees.
The iSpoof website, which has since been taken down by the FBI, crucially allowed scammers to access one-time passcodes and passwords, detectives said.
One-time codes, often delivered through text messages, have become a standard security measure for most online banks in recent years.
Det Supt Helen Rance, from the Met's Cyber Crime unit, said victims would not have known the phone call was coming from iSpoof.
"The person on the other end of the line can be very convincing," she said.
"This is an absolutely devastating crime for so many people.
They must be worried, I really feel for them," she said.
Fraudsters paid between £150 and £5,000 a month in bitcoin to use the iSpoof service, contacting, at times, 20 people a minute, primarily in the USA, UK, Netherlands, Australia, France and Ireland.
So far, police believe £48m may have been stolen by criminals using iSpoof.
This figure is likely to rise.
A notice on the website says that it has been taken down by the FBI.
Det Supt Rance said the investigation remained active.
Police believe 59,000 potential suspects may have used the iSpoof service, but are prioritising those in the UK who have spent at least 100 Bitcoin to get access, believing they were anonymous.
Early in November they raided an address in east London and arrested a man alleged to be behind iSpoof.
In other raids, 120 people thought to have used the service for fraud have been taken into custody.
Det Supt Rance warned other criminal "enablers" will have taken over to provide services to fraudsters.
"Undoubtedly they will go to another website," she said.
A 34-year-old man, Teejai Fletcher, has been charged with making or supplying articles for use in fraud and participating in the activities of an organised crime group.
He will appear at Southwark Crown Court on 6 December.
Call your bank directly, checking its website for the correct number to ring.
If the fraud involved any of your personal information, consider signing up for a Protective Registration with fraud prevention organisation Cifas, which costs £25 for two years.
Change your passwords for any accounts that have been compromised due to fraud - and any that use the same password.
Set up two-factor authentication wherever possible to provide another layer of protection.
Being scammed can take a huge toll on mental health.
Mind and Victim Support have confidential helplines that provide support to consumers who have been hit.
Six people have been arrested in the Republic of Ireland as part of an international investigation into a global financial scam.
The investigation involved a website enabling fraudsters to commit a type of cybercrime known as spoofing.
It comes as police in the UK, where it is believed £48m has been lost, are to text 70,000 people to warn them they have been the victim of the scam.
In the 12 months before August 2022, about 10 million fraudulent calls were made globally using the service.
Europol estimates a worldwide financial loss of more than £100m.
It said 142 iSpoof users were arrested across the world in November as part of a coordinated international operation.
Gardaí (Irish police) searched 17 locations across counties Louth, Meath and Dublin on 8 and 9 November, arresting six people.
They also identified 64 suspect bank accounts and seized 132 electronic devices.
"Over recent months we are all aware of the proliferation of ‘spoof’ and scam phonecalls.
"An Garda Síochána, working with our International Law Enforcement partners, is playing our part in targeting and degrading the activities of organised crime groups.
The website was seized and taken offline by US and Ukrainian officials on 9 November.
Fraudsters paid between £150 and £5,000 a month in bitcoin to use the iSpoof service, contacting, at times, 20 people a minute, mainly in the United States, UK, Netherlands, Australia, France and Ireland.
Garda Det Insp Mel Smyth, told Irish broadcaster RTÉ, external that while the exact amount lost in Ireland was unknown, it was believed to be in the millions.
The investigation has been led by the Metropolitan Police in London with assistance from authorities in Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Ireland, Lithuania, Netherlands, Ukraine and the USA.
A man believed to be the main administrator of the website, 34-year-old Teejai Fletcher, has been charged with making or supplying articles for use in fraud and participating in the activities of an organised crime group.
He will appear at Southwark Crown Court in London on 6 December.
Police in Estonia have arrested two men suspected of running a $575m (£485m) cryptocurrency scam involving hundreds of thousands of victims.
Estonian police investigated the case with the FBI, and US authorities want to extradite the pair - Estonians Sergei Potapenko and Ivan Turogin.
The two 37-year-olds allegedly got people to invest in a cryptocurrency mining service called HashFlare and a fake virtual bank called Polybius.
A US indictment has been issued.
A statement from the US Department of Justice (DoJ) says the pair are accused of wire fraud and conspiracy to commit money laundering - crimes punishable by up to 20 years in prison.
The defendants have appeared in court in the Estonian capital Tallinn and are being held pending extradition to the US, the statement says.
There was no immediate comment from their representatives.
Giving details of the alleged scheme, the DoJ says the two defrauded victims by offering them the chance to buy into HashFlare's cryptocurrency mining operations.
Crypto mining uses computers to generate virtual coins for profit - a process that consumes significant amounts of computing power.
But the operation allegedly overstated its capabilities.
The DoJ alleges that victims were also promised dividends if they invested in Polybius, a virtual bank Mr Potapenko and Mr Turogin said they had set up.
The defendants are said to have raised $25m this way - but no bank was ever formed.
They used shell companies to launder criminal proceeds, buying at least 75 properties and luxury cars, DoJ says.
Oskar Gross of Estonia's police cybercrime bureau described the joint investigation - which involved 100 personnel including 15 from the American side - as "long and vast".
It was "one of the largest fraud cases we've ever had in Estonia", he said on Monday, quoted by Estonia's ERR public broadcaster.
The country's authorities also warned that technology had "broadened the risk of fraud".
The case comes at a time of heightened nervousness in the cryptocurrency market, following the collapse of the world's second-largest crypto exchange, FTX.
Digital travel scams are a growing "systemic and global" problem, according to the World Tourism Organization, a branch of the UN.
Dozens of Brazilian women have been finding this out the hard way, after paying for luxury holidays from a man whose Instagram account sparkles with opulent hotels and exotic locations.
Last December Maria (not her real name) decided to have a break from the heat of the Australian summer, and to take her family on a skiing holiday to Europe.
It was her first trip since the pandemic and she wanted it to be special.
So she paid $20,000 to a travel agent, Rafael Bessa, a fellow Brazilian who had been recommended by a friend, and made the long flight north.
To begin with, everything was perfect, but as Maria checked out of the third hotel the manager told her the room had not been paid for.
Two further shocks came in quick succession.
When Maria contacted Rafael Bessa to ask for help, she noticed he was unable to talk to the hotel manager in French, despite his claim to have attended an exclusive boarding school in the Alps.
Then, when the family boarded a train to their next destination, there was a problem with the tickets: he had provided two tickets with the same purchase number, meaning that only one was valid.
At the next hotel it was a similar story: Maria had to settle the bill, even though she had paid in full already.
Initially she had assumed Rafael Bessa was simply incompetent.
"Then I said, 'No, this is not a mistake, this is on purpose.
This is in bad faith.
Altogether, Maria says she lost $30,000 on the holiday - $15,000 of the money she had paid in advance, plus an extra $15,000 for just one of the hotels.
Maria says that as well as telling her he'd paid for the room, Rafael Bessa said he'd got her a free upgrade - but he hadn't, and the hotel charged the staggering full price for the super de luxe room.
Rafael Bessa's promises of reimbursement came to nothing, Maria says.
Although he sent her various "proofs" of money transfers, the cash never actually arrived in her account.
Then, when she posted about her experiences on social media, she says his lawyer got in touch, offering to reimburse $20,000 as long as she signed a non-disclosure agreement.
The BBC asked Rafael Bessa to comment on Maria's allegations.
He replied that there had been an unspecified "problem" with the price of one of the hotels, and that the room at this price had not been included in the package.
He also sent copies of the train bookings - which, as Maria said, both bore the same purchase number.
Another Brazilian woman, Ana Jalenna, booked an Alpine skiing trip and also an Italian summer holiday with Rafael Bessa, after he had organised a "fantastic" family holiday for her in Brazil.
She paid part of the bill in cash, and the plan was that he would put the rest on her credit card.
Some time later, she was surprised to see a payment to British Airways appear on her card account and called him to ask about it.
It was the payment for her Italian hotel, he told her.
Finding this hard to believe, she emailed the hotel and was told no payment had been made.
Ana decided to ask Rafael Bessa for proof that he had at least made the bookings at the ski resort.
He gave her two reservation numbers, but the hotel told her they were invalid.
She later spoke to other dissatisfied clients of Rafael Bessa's, and noticed a pattern.
"The first trip was fantastic and everything is OK," she says.
"And then he does a longer trip, a better trip with expensive hotels, and he does this to people.
Rafael Bessa insisted to the BBC that he booked the Italian hotel.
He said Ana cancelled the skiing trip, and he paid her back the money.
But Ana said she didn't cancel it - and wasn't reimbursed.
Maria and Ana were angry and scarred by their experience, but neither suffered financial hardship as a result.
For Adriane Trofin, a Brazilian working mother of two who lives in London, the failure of her dream family holiday to Greece this year was more traumatic.
She first came across Rafael Bessa on Facebook, captivated by his posts from beautiful locations, and struck up an online friendship.
She explained that she couldn't afford that kind of holiday herself, but he replied that there were trips for every budget, and she ended up booking a dream holiday to Greece for 14 people in total - members of her family and a number of friends.
They had paid Rafael Bessa in advance for the stay at a four-star Club Med resort, but the cars that should have met them at Athens airport didn't arrive.
Adriane messaged Rafael Bessa for help.
He reassured her that everything had been booked, and gave her three telephone numbers for the car company, but she couldn't get through on any of them.
Eventually, the airport operations manager for Club Med, David Doepfer, came to their assistance.
He quickly established that there was no Club Med booking in Adriane's name.
Rafael Bessa had once reserved rooms, he learned, but had not paid for them before the expiry date.
David called the travel agent and asked him to book a different hotel in Athens for the group, which he agreed to do.
But David says that when he called the new hotel to check Rafael Bessa had stuck to his word he was told the rooms had not been paid for.
"I spent that week, those seven days, discussing with Rafael day and night on the phone, trying to make him send at least a part of the money.
He started to mock me," Adriane says.
He also harassed other members of the group, she says, convincing some of them that the problem was Adriane's fault and that she owed him money.
I had never faced a worse situation in my life, I never had anything worse in my life than those seven days in Greece.
Despite having assured Adriane, as she waited at the airport, that everything would be fine, Rafael Bessa told the BBC he had cancelled the hotel booking because Adriane had failed to pay everything she owed him.
But Adriane showed the BBC evidence of money transfers made before the trip covering the full cost of the hotel.
She had agreed with Rafael Bessa to pay for three plane tickets in instalments, and was up to date with these payments - which Mr Bessa confirmed in screengrabs of messages he sent to the BBC.
The BBC has spoken to 10 other clients of Rafael Bessa.
Together with Maria, Ana and Adriane they say they paid him $90,000 for services that were not provided.
We also spoke to Brazilian lawyer Victor Penido Machado, who is bringing a case against Rafael Bessa on behalf of nearly 50 clients.
They paid a total of $183,000 for hotel bookings and other services that were not delivered, he says.
A similar pattern is repeated again and again, the lawyer says.
Clients arrive at their destinations, find a hotel has not been paid for, and are unable to get Rafael Bessa to pay them back.
Approached by the BBC, Mr Bessa denied the allegations made by his former clients, saying he was "shocked".
"I'm really surprised by the amount of errors, 90% of your facts are false," he wrote.
The UN's World Tourism Organization (UNWTO) says social media is increasingly being used by travel agents to persuade customers to buy a dream holiday - one that they too can look forward to posting on social media.
"Because they are being displayed on social media, tourists may have the perception that these services are more reliable than if they would find them on any regular website," says UNWTO legal counsel, Alicia Gomez.
At the same time, digital travel scams are on the rise all over the world, Ms Gomez says.
"This has become a global and systemic problem.
Many national consumers and authorities are reporting an increase in online scams, and the number may be even higher as the shame and the guilt of tourists that fall for them discourage reporting.
The UNWTO has developed a code for the protection of tourists, which it says clarifies the responsibilities of social media companies, governments and consumers and describes how governments and private companies can best work together.
Seven countries have signed up to the code so far, making it part of their national legislation, while others, including Brazil, are in the process of doing so.
Meta, owner of Instagram and Facebook, told the BBC: "We don't allow fraudulent activity on our platforms and work closely with law enforcement to support investigations and keep scammers out.
"We continue to invest in new technologies and spent approximately $5bn last year alone on safety and security.
Nexperia was ordered by UK ministers to sell its 86% stake in the Newport site, due to national security concerns.
About a dozen members of the Nexperia Newport Staff Association, which says it is "in disbelief", travelled to Westminster to put their case to MPs.
The UK government said it wanted to ensure jobs were protected.
Semiconductors, or chips, made at the factory are used in millions of electronic products, from smartphones to household equipment and cars.
The plant specialises in making semiconductors that move power around a device.
A UK government review found the takeover created two risks to national security - that it could "undermine UK capabilities" in producing compound semiconductors, and could "facilitate access to technological expertise and know-how".
The firm said it was "shocked" by the ruling and would appeal against it.
On Wednesday, staff association member and principal engineer Denis Knight, from Newport, told BBC Wales: "No-one expected this decision.
"People are frustrated, they are angry, they do feel insulted: why would anybody think that anyone would put the security of this country at risk.
Mr Knight wants UK Business Secretary Grant Shapps to visit the site and speak to staff.
The group took a letter with them that has been sent to Mr Shapps from the staff association.
It said: "We are in disbelief that you have decided to order Nexperia to sell their semiconductor factory in Newport.
"You must see sense and protect our jobs by allowing Nexperia to keep their Newport factory.
Another of those in attendance was team leader Gaynor Clark, also from Newport.
"We want our jobs, we need our jobs, we've got families to support," she said.
Ms Clark wants Nexperia to stay.
"They're a good company to work for, they've given us pay rises, they're putting money into building us new machines," she said.
She fears what would happen if another company were to takeover.
"There's no future without them [Nexperia], every time we have a small company they go under.
The delegation was hosted by Newport West Labour MP Ruth Jones, who said she would be seeking a meeting with the business secretary as soon as possible.
Mr Shapps acknowledged in the Commons, on Monday, that it was a "concerning time for 500 or so employees" at the plant.
But, answering a question from Ms Jones, he said that she was "not privy to the information that I have had to weigh up in order to come to this national security decision".
"Nor can I am afraid accede to her request to publish that information," he added.
The UK government said it would be inappropriate for the business secretary to meet Nexperia while the period for legal challenge remains open.
A UK government spokesman said: "Following a detailed national security assessment, the business secretary decided to issue a Final Order requiring Nexperia to sell at least 86% of Newport Wafer Fab to mitigate potential national security risks.
"We want to make sure that jobs are protected.
We will be working with Nexperia to ensure that is the case.
The Welsh government said it would work with the company to ensure jobs at the site were protected.
"Individuals associated with the US military" are linked to an online propaganda campaign, Meta's latest adversarial-threat report says.
The campaign was the first major covert pro-US propaganda operation taken down by a big-tech company, independent researchers said in August.
It supported the US and its allies, while opposing countries such as Russia, China and Iran.
But experts said it was largely ineffective.
On Facebook, 39 accounts, 16 pages, and two groups were removed, as well as 26 accounts on Instagram, for violating the platforms' policy against "coordinated inauthentic behaviour".
"This network originated in the United States," Meta wrote.
The accounts targeting Iran had criticised Iranian authorities and their policies and posted about issues such as women's rights, researchers said.
Some of those supporting the US had posed as independent media outlets and some had tried to pass off content from legitimate outlets, such as BBC News Russian, as their own.
The operation ran across many internet services, including Twitter, YouTube, Telegram, VKontakte and Odnoklassniki, according to Meta.
"Although the people behind this operation attempted to conceal their identities and coordination, our investigation found links to individuals associated with the US military," its report says.
But most of the posts had "little to no engagement" from real users.
US think tank the Atlantic Council's Digital Forensic Research Lab managing editor Andy Carvin told the BBC when the campaign was first revealed, it would be "ineffective and counterproductive" for democracies to undertake such campaigns, because it meant using "the very tactics used by your adversaries" and "further eroding public trust".
Meta's announcement confirms previous reporting by the Washington Post.
Sources told the newspaper concern over the operation had made the Pentagon complete "a sweeping audit" of how the US military conducted clandestine information warfare.
The US Department of Defense told BBC News it was "aware of the report published by Meta".
"At this time, we do not have any further comments on the report or potential actions that may be taken by the department as a result of the report," it added.
A documentary raising awareness of disordered eating has been praised by people managing their own conditions.
Former Love Island star Zara McDermott released her BBC Three documentary this week, revealing her personal struggles.
Amy Collins, 22, first noticed a change in her eating habits during the Covid lockdowns, when charity Beat says its referrals soared.
Now recovering, Amy says raising awareness was a passion of hers and the documentary helped her feel less alone.
Disordered eating is often defined as eating difficulties or behaviours that might not necessarily meet the criteria for a clinically diagnosed eating disorder.
For Amy, who went on to be diagnosed with binge eating disorder (BED), shining a light on this is essential in making sure we better understand the "grey area" of conditions.
"I just kept eating, kept crying.
I was really low but no-one knew because I'm not the type of person to just open up.
Amy, from West Sussex, started dieting not realising she was unwell.
"I had no idea [I had an eating disorder].
I just thought that I was being greedy.
If you are affected by the issues in this story, help and support is available via the BBC Action Line and the charity Beat Eating Disorders.
According to eating disorder charity Beat, BED is a mental health condition where people eat large quantities of food without feeling like they're in control of what they're doing.
The charity worked with Zara and BBC Three to produce Disordered Eating.
Watching the documentary, Amy says she "felt like my story was being told".
Katie McKenzie feels raising awareness of disordered eating is important because "it's actually a lot more common than eating disorders themselves as diagnosable conditions".
"The documentary showed quite a few people had slipped into a disorder via disordered eating," the 24-year-old from Wigan says, adding the more that people can be aware of the early signs, the sooner they can get help.
Like Amy, Katie says the documentary will help people feel like they're not alone if they have an eating disorder.
Beat estimates that more than a million people in the UK live with an eating disorder and it says there has been an increase since the Covid lockdowns.
"It really hit home how many young people are struggling with disordered eating across the spectrum, from disordered eating into a more severe eating disorder," Zara told BBC Newsbeat.
She wanted to make the film to step outside what is "comfortable to talk about" and explore a variety of eating disorders.
"It's something that is hard to talk about," Katie says.
"The actual illness itself is very secretive.
"By having it as more of a common conversation and people being more open about it, hopefully more people will be feeling comfortable in starting those conversations.
In the film, Zara also opens up about her concerns about whether she was influencing her followers in a negative way by sharing her meals and exercise routines.
"I went on a massive journey, looking at my own influence," she says.
"I think a lot of us with social media followings have triggered someone in some way at some point so it's really important for me to take accountability.
Amy says Zara calling out her own actions was "really brave".
She also has an Instagram account which she uses to chart her recovery, sharing her own exercise routines, recipes and weight loss updates.
"I was thinking, 'am I also part of the problem?'," Amy says.
"I'm saying to people I have an eating disorder and I'm trying to get better but then I'm posting all this stuff.
Beat praises the way Zara tackled the influence of social media.
"Eating disorder content, for instance posts about extreme weight loss or specific behaviours, can harm those with or vulnerable to developing an eating disorder," said Tom Quinn from the charity.
"However, it's important to remember that the relationship between social media and eating disorders is complex.
Young people in China have curbed their addiction to video games, a report says.
The claim is made by the China Game Industry Group Committee, affiliated to the gaming regulator.
And it may raise hopes officials - who once attacked video games as "spiritual opium" - may soften the country's severe gaming restrictions.
Since August 2021, children have been banned from gaming for more than three hours a week.
The gaming sector was also hit with a freeze on official approvals for new titles.
It was part of a wider crackdown by the Chinese authorities on the country's enormous technology sector, which includes giants such as Tencent, one of the world's biggest video-games companies.
The report was co-authored by data provider CNG, which concluded 75% of young gamers now played for less than three hours a week.
Chinese game companies, including Tencent, have achieved "remarkable results", it says.
Concerns about screen time were heightened by Covid lockdowns and the switch to online learning.
Following the gaming restrictions, Douyin, China's version of TikTok, banned under-14s from using the platform for more than 40 minutes a day.
But with winter coming and another surge in Covid cases in the country, children are spending more time at home - and some parents have allowed them access to their accounts, to keep them entertained.
Gaming has also become increasingly popular among Chinese adults.
And this week, the China Daily newspaper reported many elderly care-home residents starting to play online "to strengthen their bonds with their grandchildren".
Asian games market experts Niko Partners said the backdrop to the report was declining revenues in China.
But, founder Lisa Cosmas Hanson said, the future looked more positive, with "momentum in the economy, esports, PC gaming, and enthusiasm among China's 700 million-plus gamers".
"With the restart of game approvals and adjustment to youth regulations at a local level, we are seeing a more positive outlook start to develop," she added.
Two families united by anger over the role social media played in their children's deaths have warned that more youngsters face the same fate unless the government takes swift action.
The parents of teenagers Molly Russell and Olly Stephens said they were frustrated by repeated delays to the passing of the new Online Safety Bill.
It is hoped the legislation will make it harder to share harmful content.
The government said it wanted to introduce the law as soon as possible.
Molly Russell, from Harrow in north-west London, was 14 when she took her own life in 2017 after watching images of self-harm and suicide on Instagram and Pinterest.
Just over three years later, 13-year-old Olly Stephens from Reading was stabbed to death by teenagers who plotted his killing across numerous social media platforms and posed in pictures with knives and shared content glamorising gang violence.
Molly and Olly's parents spoke to the BBC together about their increasing exasperation with the government for repeated delays to a law that would end self-regulation for social media firms and force them to remove harmful content.
Ian Russell, Molly's father, compared the way social media companies currently operate to "putting cars on the road without testing them on crash dummies first".
"The Online Safety Bill is something I care deeply about because without a change that regulates the companies to operate their platforms more safely, these tragedies will continue to happen," he said.
"It's too late for me so in a way it's not a huge personal investment - I'm just frustrated that an opportunity for change and an opportunity for greater safety for children has been delayed for so long.
Amanda Stephens, Olly's mum, said the government has to start taking the issues "seriously" and mirrored Mr Russell's call for the delays to stop.
"The clock's ticking," she said.
"The time ran out years ago.
Our children are dying.
Olly's father, Stuart Stephens, added: "Any child's life that is lost is utterly tragic because it's a life unfulfilled.
"There's so much potential in that life and in that moment, and it's gone now for us and it's because of social media - so we have no choice but to fight.
A spokesperson for the Department for Digital, Culture, Media & Sport said: "Social media companies aren't doing enough to protect children and take down illegal content on their platforms.
"That's why we're stepping in with our world-leading Online Safety Bill to hold tech firms to account, with huge fines for those who fail to take action.
"The Secretary of State has committed to strengthen protections for free speech and children in the Online Safety Bill and bring the bill back to the Commons as soon as possible.
"It remains the government's intention to pass the bill this session.
A council resorted to using Google Translate to communicate with Ukrainian refugees due to not enough interpreting services being available.
North Tyneside Council said it had a peak of Ukrainians fleeing Russian attacks arriving in April and May.
While the authority had access to translation services, council officers said the facilities "were just not enough" to cope with the high demand.
Officers added they were using everything they could to provide help.
There are 258 Ukrainian refugees living in North Tyneside, with a further 37 expected to arrive in the next weeks, the Local Democracy Reporting Service said.
Ian Rice, the authority's welfare and tenancy support manager, said: "We do throughout the authority have access to interpreters and translation services.
What we very quickly found was that whilst we do have access to those facilities, the numbers, particularly in April and May time, were just not enough.
Council staff also used a translating service on Microsoft Word to email and correspond with Ukrainian guests, which officers acknowledged "might not always be perfect".
However, officers claimed no guests had yet complained and added it had helped open up dialogue.
The officers added that professional translation services were sought for more complex circumstances.
In addition, several refugees had also stepped forward to help officers as interpreters.
"We have had a couple of our Ukrainian guests help us out and volunteer to translate and a number of our guests who are school teachers have helped," Mr Rice continued.
"We are using everything we possibly can to help and support them and quite a number of them speak quite good English," Mr Rice said.
He added that the government and the Red Cross had also provided translation materials in Russian and Ukrainian.
A cattle farmer says he is making more money from YouTube than from his dairy herd.
His channel, Farmer P, has 37,500 subscribers and some videos get hundreds of thousands of views.
Mr Pullen shows the things that go wrong as well as what goes right on the farm, and advises people to "stay honest" with their audiences.
When he started the channel, Mr Pullen never expected he would be paid for his work.
"About two and a half years ago, I got a message from Google, saying we've just paid you £47'," he said.
YouTube now earns me more than 40 cattle.
He has bought a new barn with the online revenue, and invested in premium camera kit, including a drone for aerial shots.
He has also learned what content excites his audience the most.
Shiny tractors are popular, as is his dog Biskit, who even has her own merchandise.
Mr Pullen says he reinvests every penny he makes online back into his farm.
Katie Jarvis from the National Farmers' Union in Gloucestershire believes the industry would benefit from having more vlogging farmers.
"It is a very uncertain time for farming, and it will be for some time now," she said.
"If they can make some money out of it while educating the public about what we do and the importance of food production and environmental management, then all the better.
"Video games are really important to me because with some things I can't always join in.
But with video games, I can always join in with everyone.
Seth is 13 and uses a wheelchair due to a life-long progressive condition, so loves gaming because it helps him "experience things like other people".
He's one of the 44 million UK and three billion global gamers who play in the world's biggest entertainment industry.
But for Seth it is more than that: "Games are accessible to everyone.
Many parents worry that their child spends too much time playing video games.
Some studies have found a link between computer games and mental wellbeing, now organisations and those who work with young people say that, in moderation, gaming can help.
The children's hospice in south Wales where Seth receives care for his condition Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy has a games room where he can escape to a world of virtual reality.
"If you're in a wheelchair, you can't always run around with everyone so when I play Minecraft, I can run around and it's really fun," said Seth.
"I can join in with more stuff and people treat me as if I can join in more.
"It's an escape from reality where you let your imagination run wild.
I love gaming because it just helps me experience things like other people.
Seth, the first wheelchair user to become a member of the Welsh Youth Parliament, started gaming during the first Covid lockdown in 2020 and enjoyed "building stuff and blowing up my brother's houses" in Minecraft.
The hospice where he receives care supports his love of gaming with a palliative care play specialist for young people with life-limiting conditions.
"I think gaming provides a level playing field, particularly for those who have barriers to access typical methods of play," said Heather Roberts of the Ty Hafan hospice, near Barry in Vale of Glamorgan.
"When they're in the gaming environment, all of their physical needs are removed and it means it's much more inclusive and accessible.
Martha said she was a shy teenager with low self-esteem and was bullied in school until she visited a community centre near her home and discovered she loved Minecraft.
Her self-belief started to flourish and mental health improved when Valleys Kids got her to help Welsh historical monuments organisation Cadw create a virtual reality model of the Welsh valleys.
"Gaming helped my confidence, 100%" said the 15-year-old.
"When the people we were working with would leave, we'd go on the Minecraft world and dig underground and create little houses under the ground," Martha recalled with a huge smile.
"That boosted my confidence because I had people to talk to and it was really fun, we bonded over that.
Martha now volunteers at Valleys Kids and helps support young people in some of Wales' poorest areas who may not have games consoles or digital devices at home.
She feels she learned more from educational gaming than traditional schoolwork as it was a "good way to advance motor, maths, English and history skills without it being boring".
"If you finish a sheet of maths homework, it's boring.
But if you had to solve maths problems to get out of a maze, that's way more fun and you'd remember it more.
Dylan also struggled as a teenager.
"I was bullied a lot in my childhood for being disabled and gay," he said.
"It made me feel like an outcast, like I didn't fit in this world.
The turning point for him, he said, was gaming as it " helped me escape reality".
"Through gaming, it's allowed me to think about myself more and go 'it's OK to be the way I am and not allow anyone else to tell me any different'.
When Dylan was five, his disability was diagnosed by doctors.
"I have nearly everything under the sun.
I've got ADHD, autism, ataxia, dyspraxia and I've got a rare condition called arsacs," said the 20-year-old from north Wales.
"And growing up I've been bullied about being gay so I went to gaming because it was a safe space for me, it allowed me to be in my own world and have fun.
Dylan was raised on Mario World, Just Dance, Call of Duty, Minecraft and Roblox and now, over a game of Nintendo Switch tennis, he told BBC Wales how gaming helped him become an actor and presenter.
He now attends the Wicked Wales organisation for young film makers and has "produced my own show, I've had my own talent show, I've had a film done about my life and I've presented at festivals".
"Gaming has helped me have amazing opportunities.
Mental health charities have endorsed video games and gaming as being "really beneficial" for people's wellbeing.
"It's a place where people can build their own communities and can connect with new people," said Bethan Jones-Arthur of Mind Cymru.
"It's a place to relax and some games allow you to work on important life skills.
But experts warn gamers should find a "balance" between playing video games and time away from their screen.
"If you find yourself feeling irritable, tired, angry or frustrated, take a step back," added Ms Jones-Arthur.
"Make sure you're eating right, getting enough sleep and going outside if you can and do in some form of physical activity just so you're not constantly playing games.
Mind also warned gamers against sharing personal information "even if they seem really friendly" while, Parent Zone, an organisation that helps families with digital advice, said there were risks that both parents and young people should understand.
"Understanding the games your child plays - and why - will help you have a better sense of if they are appropriate and safe," said Giles Milton.
"You could do your research online but the best way is often just to ask them to show you - or play with them.
A father of two has described why he started a group to help people find discounted items at food stores.
Emlyn Mousley has set up a social media group called Markdown Addicts Nottingham, which encourages people to post photos and details of items in the reduced sections of local supermarkets.
Mr Mousley said it was a simple idea which he hoped would help families struggling with rising food prices.
"Everyone likes a good bargain, so why not share the knowledge?" he said.
Mr Mousley, 45, a former builder who now works in marketing, set up the Facebook group a month ago and already has more than 200 followers.
He said he had made significant savings by shopping in the reduced sections of food stores.
"If it's just going out of date, and it's half price, then buy it and bang it straight in the freezer," he said.
"I've always been a bit of a wheeler-dealer.
"I think everyone likes a good bargain and if I can share details of heavily discounted items that will benefit others, that's great.
"We're not the kind of people to buy duck breasts but we're going to learn how to cook them," he said.
"You can often pay just 10p for a pack of veggies like carrots or turnips and these can be made into soups or stews.
"Some people are on really low incomes and they may only have £5-10 to spend on food that week.
"If I can quickly share information about the location of a local supermarket shelf where they can feed their family on reduced items for a week, and stop that food going to waste, that's hopefully a really good thing.
"It's important not to be greedy and take all the deals for yourself.
The more people we encourage to use the group, the more people will benefit from it.
Sue Anderson, head of media at StepChange, a debt counselling charity, said: "With the recent news that inflation has now reached 11%, over the past several months we've seen the price of our food shop rise steeply.
"However, with many households' incomes not rising at the same pace, people have had to carefully consider their spending and explore all the ways they can save money when buying essentials.
"For anyone struggling to manage the cost of their food shop and other essential bills, the first step we'd suggest is to make a budget to get a clear picture of your finances, understand your income and expenditure, and identify how much you have available per month for your food shop.
She added that if people were worried they did not have enough to cover their essentials, charities such as StepChange could offer advice.
Making a list can stop you from buying items on impulse.
Check what you have in the cupboards, fridge and freezer and make a note of what you need.
Supermarkets must get rid of food items by the best before date.
These items are usually fine to eat for some time afterwards or may be suitable for freezing.
Markdown addicts say late afternoons or evenings are usually when items are most heavily discounted.
Before you go shopping, check the supermarket's website to see if there are any coupons available for the items you need.
Make a note of what everything costs.
When you get home, look at the receipt and make a note of what you spent on each item.
Over time, you'll become familiar with these costs, which will help you when you plan your meals.
If you haven't already, consider switching to a cheaper supermarket.
Doing this could save you hundreds of pounds a year.
Try looking for websites that compare prices between different supermarkets.
Software firm boss Stanford Mogotsi says he remains committed to South Africa, despite the challenges of running a small IT firm in the country.
"It's my home, I have a kid, I have a family here," says the 47-year-old.
Both have come a long way since growing up in one of South Africa's townships during apartheid.
Their initial work was consultancy - advising firms such as MTN, South Africa's largest mobile phone network, and state-owned power company Eskom.
But they found consulting frustrating because they wanted to build software from the ground up, rather than just advise.
Their first major foray into designing software was creating a system for world football governing body Fifa to manage volunteers at the 2010 World Cup, which was held in South Africa.
Then in 2017 they created software that helped brewing group Heineken improve its transportation system in the country.
Yet it hasn't all been plain sailing for the firm.
Nane means eight in Swahili, and the name was chosen because the company had eight founders.
However, the shift from consulting to the risker business of software development, and then the impact of South Africa's tough coronavirus lockdowns, resulted in all but Mr Mogotsi and Mr Mashisi leaving the business.
"It's really difficult to win work when you are a small firm," says Mr Mogotsi.
"We have to compete with multinationals, and potential clients tend to want to go for these tried and tested big IT firms, especially when the economic backdrop in South Africa is uncertain.
Prof Duncan Coulter, head of the Academy of Computer Science and Software Engineering at the University of Johannesburg, agrees that times are difficult for South African IT companies like Nane.
While Mr Mogotsi and Mr Mashisi are staying in South Africa, Prof Coulter says that the continuing big problem for the country's IT sector is a brain drain - people finding jobs overseas.
"A lot of our better students are now off in Europe, America and Asia, are doing very well for themselves, we're very proud of them," he says.
"And as part of the general brain drain [away from South Africa], they definitely have opportunities to move more easily than professions like lawyer and doctors.
As a result of all these young IT professionals finding work overseas, Prof Coulter says that firms in the sector in South Africa can now struggle to fill positions.
Mr Mashisi says that "salary-wise we can't compete" with what large firms overseas can offer.
"So as soon as someone's got a year or two's worth of experience, then it's easy for them to be snapped up [and go abroad].
Yet despite this brain drain, South Africa still has successful software start-ups that are producing popular products.
An example of this is the app EskomSePush, which warns users across South Africa when to expect power cuts.
Such power cuts or "load-sheddings" are a regular occurrence in the country, due to the continuing energy generation shortfalls at power firm Eskom.
EskomSePush is the brainchild of co-founders Dan Wells (35) and Herman Maritz, who launched the app in 2015 and run it from their Cape Town homes.
It collects and processes complicated load-shedding schedules from Eskom and local governments across South Africa.
Notifications are then sent out to the app's users telling them exactly when the power will be out in their neighbourhood and for how long.
Mr Wells says that within six months of launching the app 250,000 people had downloaded it, "which was crazy back then".
He adds that today the app is "on seven million devices, and about a million people will click on a notification almost immediately".
The app is monetised through advertising revenues, and Mr Wells' advise for software developers is "gain a taste for having problems, find your community and solve some problems".
If there is one thing that unites South Africans it is a love of sport, with cricket being the third most popular in the country.
At the University of Johannesburg, computer science lecturer Tevin Moodley and Prof Dustin van der Haar, have developed a cricket video software system that aims to help produce the next generation of world-beating South African batsmen and women.
Its software can automatically identify the different strokes played by a particular batsman from a recording of a test match or other game.
This means that a cricket coach can play numerous clips of a certain shot, without having to laboriously go through all the footage to first find them.
This allows quick analysis of the player's execution of the shot in question, where they are standing, and their foot placements.
From that, recommendations and improvements can be made, and young players can compare their performance with video recordings of former cricketing greats.
"My belief is if you're able to improve the batter's skill level, you're able to improve your team's chances of winning," says Mr Moodley.
"So the impact of our work will be very big within the space of cricket.
At the moment, Mr Moodley uses YouTube clips of test matches to collect footage, but he hopes to work with Cricket South Africa to secure more videos.
While the software is currently still in the research stage, Mr Moodley says that given the right investors and stakeholders he would look to build a commercial product.
But in the meantime his focus is trying to help the next generation of South African cricketers.
"I want to keep it local and try to help our team," he says.
Troubled crypto firm FTX collapsed after being "run as a personal fiefdom of Sam Bankman-Fried", a US bankruptcy court has heard.
The former FTX boss led the firm once valued at $32bn (£27bn), but lacked basic money controls, a lawyer leading the bankruptcy proceedings said.
The true state of FTX's finances was only now being understood, he said.
He also claimed Mr Bankman-Fried's team spent roughly $300m on holiday homes and property for senior staff.
Only now do we realise that "the emperor had no clothes," attorney James Bromley said, describing the situation as "one of most abrupt and difficult collapses in the history of corporate America.
FTX was a cryptocurrency exchange allowing people to buy Bitcoin and other cryptocoins in exchange for traditional money.
Many customers used their FTX digital wallets like bank accounts, expecting their funds to be safe.
Judge John T Dorsey was given a detailed history of FTX and how it grew rapidly, moving countries multiple times in its seven-year lifespan.
The court was shown a timeline of how it became the second-largest cryptocurrency exchange before collapsing in just eight days once details about the company's lack of financial stability were leaked online.
Mr Bankman-Fried resigned and the firm filed for bankruptcy protection, seeking the court's oversight as it attempts to resolve its debts.
More than one million investors had cryptocurrency stored on the FTX exchange and are owed money, which they may not get back.
Company records show FTX customers were based in 27 separate countries with Cayman Islands, Virgin Islands, Great Britain and China having the highest proportion of users.
It's not known how much money FTX retained after the collapse but lawyers say that at least some of the firm's cryptocurrency assets have apparently been stolen by hackers.
"We are under constant cyber-attack and we are trying to defend against these attacks," Mr Bromley said.
The bankruptcy team also said FTX has custody of the data of millions of customers.
During a court recess some participants spoke about how they had lost money in the FTX collapse, with one saying they lost their life savings.
The next hearing is scheduled for 11 January.
The owner of Instagram has been told it should not have removed a drill music video.
Meta took down the video by Chinx (OS) after being contacted by the London Metropolitan Police, which raised concerns about gang violence.
But Meta's independent Oversight Board has ruled there was insufficient evidence to support that decision.
It said the case highlighted the "haphazard and opaque" way authorities made such requests.
The Metropolitan Police says it "works closely" with social media platforms to identify content it believes could provoke violence.
But it insists the platforms "make their own decisions regarding removal of content.
In January this year an Instagram account which described itself as promoting British music posted about a new drill track called Secrets Not Safe.
Shortly afterwards, Meta says, Scotland Yard contacted it to raise concerns about "gang violence" relating to the song.
Meta conducted its own review and decided the track contained a "veiled threat" linked to a shooting in 2017 and so removed it from Instagram.
It then referred the case to its independent system of appeals, the Oversight Board, which was set up and is funded by Meta.
It is staffed by academics and lawyers, with the remit of scrutinising and questioning the tech giant's actions.
The board has now concluded the decision to remove the song from Instagram was wrong because the threat of violence was not credible.
It says the track must be reinstated.
It also says there are serious concerns that drill - which is particularly popular among young black Britons - is being overpoliced.
Chinx (OS) told the BBC he was pleased the video would be restored and had not understood why it had been taken down in the first place.
He said he did "not believe" that his music would incite violence.
"I can see why people think it's very violent but I feel like it's an expression," he said.
"I think people are involved in a certain lifestyle prior to them releasing drill music.
"I don't think you release drill music then find yourself in gang activities - I feel it's the other way around.
The board called on Meta to create a "globally consistent system" for content removal requests from official bodies - emphasising "not every piece of content that law enforcement would prefer to have taken down should be taken down".
"It is therefore critical that Meta evaluates these requests independently, particularly when they relate to artistic expression from individuals in minority or marginalised groups for whom the risk of cultural bias against their content is acute.
As part of its investigation, Meta's Oversight Board said it filed multiple freedom of information requests with the Met Police.
It said it found the force had filed 286 requests with social media and streaming companies to take down or review posts about drill music in the 12 months from June 2021, and that 255 of those had resulted in the removal of content.
Over the same period, it had not made a single request to remove any other music genre, the force said.
A Meta spokesperson said: "We do not remove content simply because law enforcement requests it - we take action if content is found to violate our policies or local law.
"As part of our robust review process, we assess whether a request is consistent with internationally-recognized standards on human rights, including due process, privacy, free expression and the rule of law.
"Our aim is to prevent threats and intimidation in the virtual world leading to real harm in our communities", he said.
"Investigators always target threats of violence and other potentially criminal activity and not any specific genre of music.
Steven Keogh, a former detective with the Metropolitan Police, told the BBC that in his experience of investigating gang-related murders in London "all bar none" had "some connection" to drill tracks.
"The police aren't going to take down all drill music, it's not a war against drill music," he said.
"It's specific intelligence about specific videos that they think could lead to problems.
Apple and Google's dominance over cloud gaming and mobile browsers will be investigated by the UK's competition regulator, it has announced.
Last year, a "market study" by the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) concluded they had a "stranglehold" over operating systems, app stores and web browsers on mobile devices.
If the 18-month investigation finds an adverse effect on competition, the CMA can impose changes.
Both companies deny the accusations.
"Many UK businesses and web developers tell us they feel that they are being held back by restrictions set by Apple and Google," she added.
Google said its Android operating system offered a greater choice of apps and app stores than any other mobile platform.
It enabled developers "to choose the browser engine they want and has been the launchpad for millions of apps".
Apple said it "believes in vibrant and competitive markets where innovation can thrive".
Its App Store had helped millions of developers turn their ideas into apps, which had supported hundreds of thousands of jobs in the UK alone, it said.
"We will continue to engage constructively with the Competition and Markets Authority to explain how our approach promotes competition and choice, while ensuring consumers' privacy and security are always protected," Apple added.
A council leader has said he may not have taken the position if he had known how much abuse he would receive.
John Ward, leader of Babergh District Council in Suffolk, said he has had a death threat and someone tried to enter his house when his daughter was the only person in.
The Independent Conservative is asking the authority to sign up to a national campaign challenging the abuse and intimidation of councillors.
"I am now more resilient and I will not be intimidated into giving up the role of leader," he said.
According to the Local Government Association (LGA) about 70% of councillors have reported experiencing abuse or intimidation in the last year.
Its "Debate Not Hate, external" campaign hopes to raise awareness of the role of local councillors and encourage "healthy debate".
Mr Ward said: "Around three years ago, I received an email which was effectively a death threat.
"Then, a couple of years ago, a convoy was sent to my home to protest [against] council plans to reduce free parking.
"My daughter was at home on her own.
While the ringleader tried to jam his way into the house, she had to push the door from the inside.
"I’ve had some pretty nasty stuff directed at me online, too.
"If I had known the kind of hate that would be directed at me ahead of time, I might not have put myself forward to be leader.
It would have made me think twice.
The Local Democracy Reporting Service said Mr Ward would ask his council to sign up to the LGA's campaign this week.
The council leader said he hoped the campaign "will make some people sit back and think twice before they direct hate towards councillors".
"Those who direct abuse and intimidation towards councillors don’t seem to realise that we really care and want to get the right things done," he said.
"But quite often it is not easy and we are constrained by funding.
Sometimes, we have to make compromises.
A photographer is gathering images of her favourite fish and chip shop after collecting her weekly tea.
Jessica Groves has called her project outside Steve's Fish & Chips in Tamworth 'The Never Changing Face Of Britain's Chip Shops'.
"The reason I've used repetition is to try to encourage people to spend more time viewing the photos by looking for the differences in each one," said the 32-year-old.
She plans to publish the photographs on her Instagram page at the end of the year.
Known as the land of a thousand hills, Rwanda might not be the obvious place to launch electric vehicles.
The rugged, rural terrain would be tough on any car, but particularly models that have to lug around heavy batteries.
But Rwanda's president Paul Kagame wants to transform the economy of the tiny, landlocked country.
A key part of the plan is to cut greenhouse gas emissions and reduce the nation's dependence on imported fossil fuels, which account for 40% of the country's foreign exchange expenditure.
So, the government has launched a range of incentives to encourage electric vehicles.
Electric cars, their spare parts, batteries and charging station equipment have been exempted from VAT, import and excise duties.
Meanwhile, electric vehicles can be charged at a heavily subsidised electricity tariff.
The government also offers rent-free land for charging bays.
Germany's Volkswagen was one of the first beneficiaries of the government strategy.
The pilot project started with four of the cars and two charging stations in Kigali.
VW's original plan was to expand the service to 50 cars and 15 charging stations, as part of its cab-hailing app called Move.
However, three years later, only 20 of the cars are on the road and they have been removed from the ride-hailing service.
Instead they ferry customers from several high-end hotels, the international airport and the Kigali Convention Centre.
"The unevenness in road infrastructure and the height of speed-bumps turned out to be too challenging for the e-Golf, which has a relatively low ground clearance," says Allan Kweli, head of operations at Volkswagen Mobility Solutions Rwanda.
There was particular concern about damaging the underside of the car, where the batteries are located.
Despite that misfire, VW remains optimistic about Rwanda.
It is planning to import its ID.
"The beauty of Rwanda is that the government has created a test scenario whereby you can prove your work in an African setup," Mr Kweli says.
One glaring problem facing the carmakers is the lack of any charging facilities outside of Kigali.
In a developing country like Rwanda, it's tough to justify large investments in a nationwide charging infrastructure.
Nevertheless, in partnership with the government and energy companies, Rwanda's EvPlugin charging network is planning to build 200 public chargers across the country over the next two years.
Of those facilities, 35 will be suitable for cars while the others will serve electric motorbikes.
Japan's Mitsubishi is dodging the problem by launching a petrol-electric hybrid car in Rwanda.
It has 135 of its Outlander cars on the roads of Kigali - 90 of which are leased, while the others are driven through a rental service.
"A hybrid vehicle eliminates the range anxiety as it can switch to gasoline, which is relevant as we are still far behind with charging infrastructure in Rwanda," says Joshua Nshuti, from Greenleaf Motors, Mitsubishi's official dealer in Rwanda.
He says demand has picked up recently.
"As fuel prices have increased by 60% in the last few months, we see a growing demand for the Outlander, as it gives clients the opportunity to half their fuel costs," he says.
Critics question the positive environmental impact of the Outlander as, in hilly Kigali, it can only manage about 50km to 70km (30 to 44 miles) on battery power alone.
That's not a problem for Paul Frobisher Mugambwa, who works for an international accountancy firm in Kigali.
His leased Outlander runs mainly on battery power, for his short 7km commute between his home and the office.
He says petrol used to cost him $150 (£128) a month, but reckons charging his Outlander costs $40 a month.
Ideally, he would like to switch to an all-electric car, but worries about the lack of mechanics in Rwanda who would be able to service and mend such a car.
"If you buy an imported Chinese electric SUV, who is going to fix your car when it breaks down," Mr Mugambwa wonders.
Perhaps the biggest obstacle to developing an electric car market in Rwanda is the expense.
While that makes owning an electric vehicle impossible, catching a ride on an electric motorbike is within the realms of possibility.
The company Ampersand has already managed to sell more than 700 e-motorbikes in Rwanda, where motor taxis are a very important mode of transport.
These so-called e-motos, with a battery swap system, are extremely popular, partly because they cost less to acquire and operate than a traditional motorbike.
Despite the challenges, many believe that Rwanda should push on with its electrification plans.
Michelle DeFreese, is a senior officer at Global Green Growth Institute, which assists the Rwandan government with training and advice regarding a plan for electric public buses.
She believes that Rwanda, which already produces 53% of its electricity from renewable sources, is in a good position to make the transition.
"The combination of transitioning to electric vehicles while investing heavily in renewable and clean energy resources is a powerful combination when it comes to reducing emissions," she says.
One of Twitter's most important charity partners says it is considering ending its relationship with the platform because of recent policy changes.
Anti-Defamation League (ADL) says Elon Musk's surprise move to reinstate former President Donald Trump's account is "dangerous and inconsistent".
It also says allowing Kayne West back on Twitter has "raised concerns".
This comes as one of Twitter's major advertising partners expresses doubts about its future with Twitter.
Twitter did not respond to requests for comment but on its advertising website, the company says it has "long-standing fruitful relationships with key civil rights groups and organizations, including NAACP, ADColor, and the Anti-Defamation League".
According to ADL Mr Musk met the civil rights group on 1 November to assure them that no one previously banned would be reinstated until he had installed a transparent, clear process that took into consideration the views of civil society.
But "Mr Musk's decisions over the last month have raised serious concerns", said Jonathan Greenblatt, CEO of ADL.
On Saturday Mr Musk, who purchased Twitter for $44bn last month, ran a poll on his Twitter asking users whether or not Donald Trump should be allowed back on Twitter.
Mr Trump's account was suspended in 2021 because of the risk of incitement to violence.
The poll, which registered more than 15m votes, narrowly supported the move 52% to 48%.
Mr Musk tweeted "the people have spoken" and reinstated the account which has yet to make any posts.
"This decision is dangerous and inconsistent with what Musk previously had indicated to our group.
It forces us to wonder whether he is serious about safeguarding the platform from hate, harassment and disinformation," Mr Greenblatt said.
Rapper Ye (formerly Kanye West) was banned for an antisemitic post in October 2022 but began tweeting again on Sunday to his 32m followers.
NAACP, another civil rights organisation cited as a major Twitter partner, is calling for advertisers to boycott the site.
On Sunday Derrick Johnson, president of NAACP, tweeted that "any advertiser still funding Twitter should immediately pause all advertising now".
It is estimated that Twitter makes 90% of its money through advertising.
Previous reports suggest that some companies and brands have already been pulling ad campaigns in response to the uncertainty since the Musk takeover.
On Twitter's "Partnerships that drive industry-wide change" webpage three advertising organisations are listed as major partners.
One of them, Brand Safety Institute (BSI), told the BBC that Twitter's reputation for being a "commendable and reliable partner in the fight for brand safety in the last several years" was under threat.
A spokesman for the BSI said "we are disheartened by the change in approach that Musk has chosen and we will continue to educate advertisers, and work with platforms, about the choices they have in supporting healthy online experiences for both brands and people".
The two other advertising partners for Twitter are 4As and Association of National Advertisers (ANA).
ANA says it does not comment on individual business matters.
In its statement to the BBC, ADL also says that the sudden drop in staffing levels at Twitter has led to a fall in moderation standards on Twitter.
The charity says "hate and disinformation have proliferated".
The non-profit says its research shows Twitter went from taking action on 60% of antisemitic tweets to taking action on only 30%.
However Yoel Roth, the former head of Trust and Safety at Twitter, told the New York Times that moderation at the platform had largely remained the same or increased since the takeover.
Musk empowered my team to move more aggressively to remove hate speech across the platform — censoring more content, not less" he said of his final few days at the company.
Better regulations are needed to protect the financial system after the collapse of the FTX cryptocurrency exchange, a senior Bank of England official has said.
Digital currencies are still too small to pose a threat but that will soon change, said Sir Jon Cunliffe.
Sir Jon, who is deputy governor for financial stability at the Bank, also said the recent volatility in the value of cryptocurrencies posed a threat.
The value of Bitcoin, the world's largest digital currency, has dived by almost 70% in the last year.
He said the crypto world was, at present, not "large enough or interconnected enough with mainstream finance to threaten the stability of the financial system".
But he said its links with mainstream finance were developing rapidly.
"We should not wait until it is large and connected to develop the regulatory frameworks necessary to prevent a crypto shock that could have a much greater destabilising impact.
"The experience in other areas of digitalisation has demonstrated the difficulty of retrofitting regulation on new technologies and new business models after they have reached systemic scale," he told an audience at a Warwick Business School event.
It comes as the UK is set to approve laws in the Financial Services and Markets Bill, which is currently in Parliament.
The bill will introduce regulation for stable coins - a crypto asset backed by an asset such as a currency - and the marketing of crypto assets.
Before FTX collapsed, its then-CEO Sam Bankman-Fried took every chance he could to describe his firm as "the most regulated" in the industry.
It's true that FTX had collected dozens of permissions to operate in many countries and to offer many different crypto services.
But clearly, in the end, those certificates were useless at protecting customers and investors.
Every time there is a major crisis in crypto the cries for regulation grow, but it's the type of regulation that matters.
The chief concerns for authorities seem to be about protecting customers from crypto firms going bust and ensuring that they don't run off with people's money.
But as ever with cryptocurrency there is a tension between safety and freedom.
Regulating crypto firms to ensure they are safe and responsible entities would bring them a step closer to the traditional financial system - a huge no-no for crypto believers.
But whatever the true believers want, the FTX chaos may well be the point of no return.
In his speech, Sir Jon noted that the UK's financial regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, had been warning for several weeks before FTX's collapse that "this firm may be providing financial services or products in the UK without our authorisation… you are unlikely to get your money back if things go wrong".
FTX did not have a licence to operate in the UK, but its implosion has caused shockwaves around the world.
The company's filings have revealed that more than one million people and businesses could be owed money following its collapse.
On Saturday, FTX said it had launched a review of its global assets and was preparing for the sale or reorganisation of some businesses.
Last week, new FTX chief executive John Ray hit out at the way the failed crypto exchange was run, saying he had never "seen such a complete failure of corporate controls".
Mr Ray, who replaced the company's founder Sam Bankman-Fried, criticised what he called a "complete absence of trustworthy financial information".
His FTX crypto exchange grew to be the second largest in the world, with $10bn-$15bn traded a day.
It spent millions on advertising, including during the Superbowl, and last year it acquired the naming rights for the Miami Heat NBA team's arena.
Mr Bankman-Fried also projected an unconventional approach to business, tweeting pictures of himself sleeping on a beanbag next to his desk in the office.
Despite the ructions in the crypto world caused by FTX's collapse, Sir Jon said the need for a UK digital currency was still being considered by the Bank of England.
He said the work on a digital pound was driven by "the reducing role of cash, and more generally in the increasing digitalisation of daily life".
Sir Jon said the Bank planned to issue a consultative report around the end of the year setting out the possible next steps.
Elon Musk says he will not allow the conspiracy theorist Alex Jones to return to Twitter.
Over the weekend the accounts of former US president Donald Trump, rapper Ye (formerly Kanye West) and influencer Andrew Tate were all reactivated.
Mr Musk responded to tweets asking if Jones could be next.
He wrote that his own child had died, and that he "had no mercy" for anyone who "would use the deaths of children for gain, politics or fame".
Mr Musk said his baby died in his arms and he "felt his final heartbeat".
In August 2018 he was banned from Facebook, Spotify, Apple and YouTube.
Those asking for his return included the controversial internet tycoon Kim Dotcom.
On a video posted on the platform Rumble, Jones said he did not care about being on Twitter, reports news website Axios.
Mr Trump has yet to tweet, despite his reactivated account now having more than 90 million followers.
He has said he intends to stay on his own platform, Truth Social, although this has a fraction of the audience of Twitter.
Andrew Tate was banned from several platforms for sharing misogynistic content, such as suggesting that women should bear responsibility for sexual assault.
Mr Musk had previously said no decision about banned accounts would be made until a moderation board had been appointed.
He completed his $44bn purchase of Twitter on 28 October after months of wrangling.
He has since laid off half of the firm's 7,500-strong workforce, and hundreds more staff are believed to have left following an email saying that long hours and "hardcore" work would be required of those who remained.
Mr Musk says that more people than ever are logging on to Twitter - but there is no official confirmation of this, as there is no longer a communications team.
Great Britain produced a record amount of wind-powered electricity in 2022, according to the National Grid.
More electricity came from renewable and nuclear power sources than from fossil fuels gas and coal, the second highest after 2020.
Replacing fossil fuels with green power is a core way for the world to tackle the impacts of climate change.
Sources like wind and solar are also significantly cheaper and should lead to cheaper bills in the long-run.
Scientists, governments and the UN say switching to renewable power is crucial as the effects of global warming are already being felt, including in the UK, which last year recorded its hottest year since records began.
Gas remained the single most significant source of electricity last year, the National Grid Electricity System Operator (ESO) said, but electricity from wind turbines continued to grow in importance.
Overall 48.5% of electricity came from renewable and nuclear power, compared to 40% from gas and coal power stations.
On a single day in November, more than 70% of electricity was produced by wind, or around 20GW. That's enough power to heat about 1700 homes for a year.
That record was again broken on 30 December when 20.918GW was generated by wind turbines.
For five months of the year (February, May, October, November and December), more than half of electricity came from so-called zero carbon electricity sources renewable and nuclear.
And the use of coal - the most polluting fossil fuel - continued to fall. In 2022 it generated just 1.5% of electricity compared to 2012 when it was 43%.
As Great Britain builds more capacity for renewable energy, including wind turbines and solar farms, more of its electricity will come from these greener sources.
"The UK has a good record with offshore wind. We're quite a giant in the offshore wind world and our industry is very attractive," Jess Ralston, head of energy at the Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit, told BBC News.
But she says the UK has missed some tricks. An effective ban since 2015 on onshore wind has limited the country's capacity to increase wind power faster.
"Our old-fashioned energy grid urgently needs investment to maximise the opportunity that wind and solar offer to continue to reduce bills," she said.
Prime Minister Rishi Sunak agreed in December to relax restrictions that effectively prevented onshore wind turbines.
But the government has also promised new investment in some fossil fuels.
Last year it approved the first new UK coal mine in 30 years despite concern about its climate impacts. It also opened a new licensing round for companies to explore for oil and gas in the North Sea.
Energy supplies and pricing were significantly affected in 2022 by Russia's war in Ukraine, which led to imposing sanctions on Russia which has been an important supplier of gas to Europe.
Nations including Germany, Spain and Italy and the US responded by increasing their renewable capacity.
The Pioneer of Belfast glides above the water, quiet and smooth, leaving little wake behind it.
"Even in big waves and wind, we can see the benefits of flying above the waves," says Katrina Thompson, programme director at Artemis Technologies.
The Pioneer, developed by Artemis Technologies, is the world's first electric foiling workboat to be brought to market.
The foil, a wing-like structure underneath the boat, lifts the hull out of the water, greatly reducing drag.
Combine with an electric motor and you have, according to Artemis, a vessel which reduces fuel costs by 90% and is emission-free.
"It's such a transformative technology," says Dr Thompson.
Dr Thompson grew up in Sailortown, Belfast, in amongst the bustle of heavy industry. She spent her childhood playing on the docks while her parents worked on the boats.
She left Belfast to become an aeronautical engineer, designing aircraft for Rolls-Royce and Bombardier. Then, she went back to her roots - taking her expertise with her.
"My dad couldn't understand it," says Dr Thompson. "Then I showed him the underneath of the boat. He said, 'Well, it's a wing'."
Artemis brings together motorsports experts, aeronautical engineers, specialists in flight controls and physics modelling, as well as naval architects.
The Pioneer measures 11.5m and is well suited to transporting crew to and from offshore wind farms, says Dr Thompson.
"They have to push against the wind to get out to the farms and stay there while the crew disembark. It's a power- hungry manoeuvre."
Wake caused by maritime traffic causes coastal degradation, shore erosion and loss of habitats. Artemis is allowed to operate close to the harbour, at higher speeds than other vessels, due to the lack of wake, promising significantly reduced journey times too.
"We are working in an industry that is traditionally slow to adopt new technologies," says Dr Thompson. "If we start now, we can make a smoother journey towards decarbonisation."
About 90% of global trade is transported by sea. The international maritime sector is responsible for almost 3% of total global emissions. If it were a country, it would be the world's sixth highest emitter.
In 2018, the International Maritime Organization (IMO) set a target of 2050 to slash emissions by 50% compared with 2008. However, experts argue that to limit global warming to 1.5C, the target should be 100%.
So, can the shipping industry clean up its act?
Over short distances, boats can be powered by battery, but for international shipping green hydrogen-based fuels are tipped to play a central role in decarbonising the industry.
Moving to hydrogen, however, would require changes to fuelling infrastructure. Storage and cost are significant challenges, as well as the adaptation of the ships themselves to enable them to run on hydrogen.
To tackle the problem, some researchers are working on radical technologies.
Experts at Cambridge University say syngas produced by artificial photosynthesis could bridge the gap between fossil fuels and clean hydrogen.
"Syngas, a mixture of hydrogen and carbon monoxide, is an important industrial intermediate in the production of conventional fuels like gasoline," says Dr Virgil Andrei, research fellow at the University of Cambridge. "If we can produce syngas sustainably, we won't need fossil resources."
Tourists chatter as a punt floats down the River Cam, under the Bridge of Sighs, past St John's College. Sunlight sparkles on the water, the surface speckled with the golds and reds of autumn leaves.
One leaf looks out of place. Dr Andrei shields it from a hungry looking duck.
"It won't eat it," he assures me.
The plastic cover, he says, should be strong enough to prevent animals from consuming this unusual leaf.
"In fact, covering the water surface up to a certain extent, around 50%, does not affect wildlife, and may even provide benefits - like preventing water evaporation from irrigation canals," Dr Andrei adds.
Dr Andrei and his team at Cambridge University have developed artificial leaves that generate clean fuels from sunlight and water, and could eventually operate on a large scale at sea.
The leaves have two kinds of light absorbers which harvest sunlight. One uses light from the blue end of the spectrum to produce oxygen from the water. The other uses light from the red end of the spectrum to convert carbon dioxide and protons to syngas or hydrogen.
The ultra-thin, flexible devices are low-cost, autonomous and float, says Dr Andrei, meaning they could be used to generate a sustainable alternative to petrol without taking up space on land.
"You could have decentralised fuel production in remote areas - on shorelines, on lakes, near islands. We could have refuelling stations for ships."
This is the first time that clean fuel has been generated on water and, if scaled up, the artificial leaves could be used on polluted waterways, in ports or at sea - and reduce the global shipping industry's reliance on fossil fuels.
While that technology is still a long way from being deployed, others are reviving ways to ship cargo that have been around for centuries.
Julia Milmore is chief executive of Sailcargo, which was founded in 2014 in the mangroves of Costa Rica.
Its flagship, the Ceiba, is being built at its shipyard in the Central American nation. It is due to set sail in 2024.
The 45m long ship has three masts, which makes it a schooner in the sailing world.
It can carry 250 tonnes of cargo, which is roughly equivalent to nine standard shipping containers.
"Once built, she will be the largest clean cargo vessel in the world," says Ms Milmore.
"The crew know that with every strike of a hammer or pull of a rope they are contributing to a much larger mission - bigger than the ship itself."
Another refurbished vessel, the Vega Gamley, bought from a Swedish family who had owned the ship for decades, is ready to transport Fair Trade organic coffee between the Americas.
Travelling between Santa Marta, Colombia and New Jersey in the US, the Vega will make up to eight trips per year. Each voyage will take 16 days, with a further six days in ports.
"We can't compete with the speed of fossil-fuelled transport, but it only takes one look at the map of active ships to see the weeks-long waiting times outside of ports across the world," says Ms Milmore.
Her sailing ships can only carry a tiny fraction of the cargo of a modern container ship - some of which carry more than 20,000 containers.
But Ms Milmore says her smaller boats can avoid the bottlenecks that plague the shipping industry.
"Consumerism has grown beyond the infrastructure. Our ships are able to bypass this due to our flexible unloading and loading operations. We are detaching ourselves from the market that has let our environment down."
Heavy rain and powerful winds are pounding the northern California coast and forecasters have warned people to expect more flooding and mudslides.
The powerful storm system known as a bomb cyclone has killed at least two people, including a toddler who died when a redwood tree fell on his home.
California has been under a state of emergency since Wednesday. Over 160,000 home and businesses have lost power.
Officials say the rain is falling on ground already soaked by past rainfall.
Much of the state has been hit by atmospheric rivers - an airborne current carrying dense moisture from the ocean - bringing heavy rain to low-lying areas, powerful winds to San Francisco and snow to the Sierra Nevada mountains.
The National Weather Service said California will continue to be impacted by atmospheric river conditions through Thursday, "with heavy to excessive rainfall, flooding with debris flows and landslides near recent burn scar areas, heavy mountain snow and high winds."
Evacuation orders and advisories were in place in parts of northern California, and local authorities have warned of threats to life and property, especially around San Francisco and Sacramento.
A toddler died in Sonoma County north of San Francisco when a tree fell on his home on Wednesday evening.
Chief Ronald Lunardi of the Occidental Volunteer Fire Department said the child was between one and two years old. The child's parents were in the home but were unharmed.
A 19-year-old woman also died in a nearby county after her car slid on a flooded road and crashed into a light pole, according to reports.
Bars and restaurants closed in San Francisco and nearby communities on Wednesday, as officials have cautioned against driving on the roads. Over 100 flights have been cancelled at San Francisco International Airport since Wednesday.
Meanwhile, sandbags were distributed to residents to help curb the flooding.
"We're very worried about it," Deepak Srivastava told BBC's US partner CBS in San Francisco.
"(I) just spent all day putting sandbags in front of the garage at every entering point and we're just crossing our fingers and hoping we won't have more damage," he said.
Rivers along the coast are forecast to see widespread flooding due to tidal surges. The storm is expected to dump up to 6in (15cm) of rain in coastal areas, and gust up to 80mph (128km/h) in the coastal hills and mountains.
Rains and winds are expected to die down on Thursday night, before ramping up again over the weekend and into next week.
An evacuation order has been issued in Santa Cruz County, south of San Francisco, because of the "high probability" that some neighbourhoods will become inaccessible due to flooding.
Further south, in Santa Barbara County, officials also ordered residents living near burn scars from previous forest fires to leave the area. The order affects the affluent community of Montecito, home of the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, Harry and Meghan, and Oprah Winfrey.
Classes have been cancelled for Thursday in school districts throughout northern California, including for 8,000 pupils enrolled in south San Francisco public schools.
The city of San Jose, in the heart of Silicon Valley, reported a mudslide on Wednesday afternoon.
A giant eucalyptus tree fell into a three-story apartment building in Oakland, forcing five families to flee.
A California Highway Patrol officer was injured when a 60-ft tree fell on him while he was responding to the scene of a car crash, according to ABC.
Public evacuation centres have opened for residents forced to leave their homes.
In a statement declaring a state of emergency on Wednesday, Governor Gavin Newsom said his order would "allow the state to respond quickly as the storm develops and support local officials in their ongoing response".
The storm comes just a year after California recorded one of its driest years on record. On Saturday, San Francisco saw its second-wettest day in over 170 years.
More than 105 million people across the US are currently at risk of severe weather, according to the NWS.
Further east, some 30 million people are facing large storms that have already produced tornadoes in several states.
Plant-eating dinosaurs might have evolved different ways of eating their food, researchers say.
While analysing skulls of the first known herbivorous dinosaurs, scientists found they had variations in eating styles despite similar diets.
The lead author, Dr David Button from Bristol University, said it was due to "having different jaw muscles and biting actions".
Researchers said it showed "how innovative" evolution could be.
Dr David Button, who carried the work out at the Natural History Museum in London, said when they compared the functional performance of the skull and teeth, "they found significant differences in the relative sizes of the jaw muscles, bite forces and jaw strength between them".
He added: "This showed that these dinosaurs, although looking somewhat similar, had evolved very different ways to tackle a diet of plants."
Published in the journal Current Biology, researchers said their findings could help shed further light on how dinosaurs evolved to occupy certain ecological niches, also highlighting how unpredictable evolution could be.
For the study, the researchers reconstructed jaw muscles of the Heterodontosaurus, Lesothosaurus, Scelidosaurus, Hypsilophodon and Psittacosaurus.
They then simulated biting action to analyse the forces exerted by the reconstructed muscles.
The five dinosaur species belong to a group of herbivorous creatures known as Ornithischia, that according to experts, were the earliest representatives of what would become the major plant-eating dinosaur groups.
The team found that Heterodontosaurus had large jaw muscles relative to its skull size, thus producing a high bite force ideal for consuming tough vegetation.
Scelidosaurus, on the other hand, had relatively small jaw muscles compared with its skull but had a similar bite force - due to its greater overall body size.
Senior author Professor Paul Barrett, a palaeontologist at the Natural History Museum, said in order to understand "how dinosaurs diversified into so many different types" effectively, it was "critical to learn" how dinosaurs "evolved to feed on such a wide variety of vegetation in so many different ways".
While all dinosaurs are thought to have descended from a single carnivorous ancestor, most of them evolved to become plant eaters.
Last year was the UK's warmest year on record, the Met Office has confirmed.
The average annual temperature in 2022 was more than 10C for the first time, the national weather service said.
The mean temperature across the 12 months was 10.03C - topping the previous all-time high of 9.88C in 2014.
It means 15 of the UK's top 20 warmest years on record have all occurred this century - with the entire top 10 within the past two decades.
Dr Mark McCarthy, head of the Met Office National Climate Information Centre, said: "Although an arbitrary number, the UK surpassing an annual average temperature of 10C is a notable moment in our climatological history.
"This moment comes as no surprise, since 1884 all the 10 years recording the highest annual temperature have occurred from 2003.
"It is clear from the observational record that human-induced global warming is already impacting the UK's climate."
All four nations set records for heat in 2022, with England seeing the highest average temperature at 10.94C, followed by Wales (10.23C), Northern Ireland (9.85C) and Scotland (8.50C).
A spell of heatwaves in June 2022 led to the UK experiencing its fourth warmest summer on record - and temperatures broke the 40C mark for the first time, leading the Met Office to issue its first-ever red warning for extreme heat.
The record of 40.3C was recorded at Coningsby in Lincolnshire on 19 July.
The hot summer and months of low rainfall also dried up rivers, damaged crops and fuelled wildfires, with an official drought declared in large parts of England.
The Met Office said that a UK mean temperature of 10C would have been expected once in 500 years in a natural climate - before humans started producing the emissions responsible for climate change with activities such as burning fossil fuels.
But it said this was now likely to occur every three to four years.
It isn't just the UK that is feeling the heat.
We'll get the figures for global average temperatures next week and last year is expected to have been the fourth or fifth hottest year on record.
And this year is expected to be even hotter worldwide.
That is not just because greenhouse gas emissions continue to rise, it is also because we are expecting a change in a weather system in the tropical Pacific, known as the El Nino.
Last year it was in a cooling phase - La Nina - but this year it will switch into its warming phase, with unusually warm water off the coast of South America.
This typically drives up average global temperatures.
A recent report on climate extremes in the UK found that recent years have seen both higher maximum temperatures and longer warm spells.
That trend is predicted to continue. It is possible that by 2100, the UK could see 40C days every three to four years.
By this point, the Met Office said - with medium levels of greenhouse gas emissions - the 10C average temperature could occur almost every year.
The Met Office has confirmed that 2022 was Scotland's hottest year on record.
The average temperature was 8.5C, beating the previous record of 8.43C in 2014.
Across the UK, the average annual temperature last year passed 10C for the first time at 10.03C - topping the previous high of 9.88C in 2014.
A study by Met Office scientists has concluded that human-induced climate change has made record annual temperatures 160 times more likely.
All four nations set records for heat in 2022, with England seeing the highest average temperature at 10.94C, followed by Wales (10.23C), Northern Ireland (9.85C) and then Scotland (8.50C).
The year also saw Scotland set its highest ever daily temperature, when it hit 34.8C (94.6F) at Charterhall in the Borders on 19 July.
Dr Mark McCarthy, head of the Met Office National Climate Information Centre, said: "Although an arbitrary number, the UK surpassing an annual average temperature of 10C is a notable moment in our climatological history.
"This moment comes as no surprise, since 1884 all the 10 years recording the highest annual temperature have occurred from 2003.
"It is clear from the observational record that human-induced global warming is already impacting the UK's climate."
The latest data shows that 15 of the UK's top 20 warmest years on record have all occurred this century - with the entire top 10 within the past two decades.
The Met Office said that a UK mean temperature of 10C would have been expected once in 500 years in a natural climate - before humans started producing the emissions that are responsible for climate change through activities such as burning fossil fuels.
But it said this was now likely to occur every three to four years.
Dr McCarthy said: "Even with the influence of climate change we don't expect every year to be the hottest on record from now on.
"Natural variability of the UK climate means there will always be some variation year to year, however looking at longer term trends it is easy to pick out the influence climate change is having over time."
Scotland saw weather extremes in 2022.
A series of water scarcity warnings were issued by the Scottish Environment Protection Agency (Sepa) during the summer months.
The situation in the east of the country gave concern, with water abstraction suspended on the River Tyne in East Lothian, River Ythan in Aberdeenshire and the Lower Tweed in the Borders.
Scotland was also on course for its coldest December in over a decade after the UK's lowest maximum temperature for 12 years was recorded in Aberdeenshire on the 12th.
The Met Office confirmed the highest temperature recorded in Braemar was -9.3C after overnight temperatures plummeted to -15.7C.
And at the end of the year, the south of Scotland fell under an amber warning for heavy rainfall which saw severe flooding in Dumfries and Galloway and major travel disruption.
In 2021, Scotland recorded its coldest winter since 2011 and hottest month since 2013.
The west of Scotland was far drier than usual while the east was wetter.
The annual State of the UK Climate report said higher temperatures were the new normal and highlighted the ways that climate change was affecting the UK.
Scientists have long warned about it and people in developing countries have experienced it but now climate change is being felt on our own soil.
While Scotland might not have broken the double digit average for the year, at 8.5C it's still 0.07C warmer than the previous record set in 2014 and 0.81C above the average since 1990.
While those figures might not sound much, they can still have a profound impact.
Take the summer when many of us were basking in glorious sunshine, dry rivers meant farmers in Fife were losing crops of vegetables and emergency meetings were being convened about whether to declare a food supply crisis.
Warmer weather also increases rainfall intensity leading to flooding, which we've experienced much of in recent months.
Experts are clear that we need to put less carbon dioxide into the atmosphere to slow down the rate of change to our climate and yet the debates still rage about how to do that and the impact on our industries, energy supply and jobs.
Farmers in England will be paid more public money for protecting the environment and producing food more sustainably, the government has said.
It is hoped the increase in payment rates will encourage more farmers to sign up to new environmental land management schemes (ELMS).
ELMS is designed to replace the EU's common agricultural policy (CAP).
Farmers' union the NFU welcomed the rise but warned it could be "too little too late" in the economic climate.
The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) said the new system would put "money into farmers' pockets" while enhancing nature and driving innovation in agriculture.
The announcement comes amid rises in the cost of food production, with farmers hit particularly hard by increases in the cost of animal feed, fertilizers and fuel.
The increased rates under ELMS will come from existing money, reallocated from the previous direct payment subsidies given to farmers under the EU scheme.
NFU vice president David Exwood said it was still unclear what work farmers - who will be losing direct payments - would actually be paid for under ELMS.
He said: "While some of these latest changes are welcome… it risks being too little too late, especially given the current economic challenges we are experiencing and the rapid erosion of direct payments."
Concerns had previously been raised that the new nature-friendly payments system would not offer smaller farms enough to stay in business.
Now 30,000 farmers who have signed up to a countryside stewardship scheme - which is being expanded under ELMS - will see an average increase of 10% to the money they receive for ongoing environmental work, such as habitat management.
Bigger, one-off green schemes, such as hedgerow creation, will see an average payment increase of 48%.
Up to an extra £1,000 a year will be available under ELMS' sustainable farming incentive to help smaller businesses, including tenant farmers, cover the administrative cost of taking part.
But the focus on smaller schemes was met with caution by environmental and conservation groups that had previously raised concerns over the government's commitment to ELMS, including the National Trust.
Harry Bowell, the organisation's director of land and nature, is concerned that money will be taken away from more ambitious environmental projects.
He said: "The risk is that a large proportion of the overall budget will now be spent on attracting farmers into the sustainable farming incentive scheme, at the cost of more stretching measures and schemes."
Tim Field, who leads a group of 120 farms across the Cotswolds, which is already piloting a larger-scale landscape recovery scheme under ELMS, said he did welcome any help for smaller farms to take up environmental work.
But he added that more had to be done to ensure domestic food production was supported too.
"Public money is essential to catalysing food and farming into restorer, not destroyer, of ecosystem services.
"However, cheap imports produced to lower standards continue to undermine the price of home-grown sustainably produced food, and this pump-priming public money will be insufficient to bridge the price discrepancy at the farm gate," he said.
The rate increase was announced by the farming minister Mark Spencer at the Oxford Farming Conference on Thursday.
He said: "As custodians of more than 70% of our countryside, the nation is relying on its farmers to protect our landscapes as well as produce the high-quality food we are known for, and we are increasing payment rates to ensure farmers are not out of pocket for doing the right thing by the environment".
A Defra spokesperson added the schemes would help the UK meet its legally-binding environmental targets and its aim of halting biodiversity decline by 2030 "while supporting the industry to farm more home-grown produce".
Before ELMS, under the EU's CAP system, farmers received subsidies based on how much land they held, meaning larger landowners benefited the most.
The new system is being phased in by 2027/28 and more details on the environmental work that will be paid for are to be announced at the end of the month.
Agricultural policy in the UK is a devolved responsibility and each nation is implementing its own subsidy schemes.
TV wildlife expert Mike Dilger says he was "blown away" by video footage showing a fox with only two legs.
The clip has been widely shared after being filmed by Phil and Jane Carter in their garden in Ilkeston, Derbyshire.
Mr Dilger, who has appeared on BBC's Springwatch and The One Show, described the footage as "nature conquering all" and "an amazing survivalist story".
He said he thought the fox had probably been born with two legs missing rather than losing them later in life.
The video shows the fox freely moving around on its two front legs while sniffing around the lawn.
Mr Dilger told BBC Radio Derby: "The footage is remarkable. It's nature conquering all - it's beautiful.
"When your producer contacted me and said would I like to pop it on, I was instantly blown away by it.
"I think it's probably a genetic abnormality or disorder - so it's probably happened from birth rather than as a result of an injury.
"The reason I think that is because it's so adept. Its poise, balance and control is astonishing - the way it can go up on those two forelimbs and actually still eat."
Mr Dilger said he had encountered many examples of wildlife coping well with the loss of a single limb but this was even more impressive.
"The fact it's looking so confident and so able tells me it's probably happened from birth," he said. "It's an amazing survivalist story."
He added the fox looked to be in very good health with no signs of sarcoptic mange - a disease that has caused a major decline in the urban fox population.
"In the suburbs around Ilkeston and Derby there's probably a good fox population," he said.
"People have got outbuildings, they dig under the garages... and there's lots of food because we don't properly dispose of it, so they can help themselves to chicken bones and pet food that's left out.
"So actually if you're enterprising and have got loads of initiative - like this fox definitely has - then you can do pretty well in an urban environment."
The footage also caught the eye of Derbyshire Wildlife Trust.
A spokesperson said: "We've never seen anything like this in the wild before but the animal looks relatively healthy and appears to have adapted to life on two legs."
A cross party group of MPs have called for a "war effort" to improve the energy efficiency of UK homes.
In a far-reaching report, the Environmental Audit Committee says a "window of opportunity" was missed last summer to get more homes insulated.
The report also recommends a faster move away from fossil fuels, with greater focus on tidal power and wind turbines onshore.
78% of the UK's energy needs are still being met by burning fossil fuels.
"We must fix our leaky housing stock, which is a major contributor to greenhouse gas emissions, and wastes our constituents' hard-earned cash," says Philip Dunne, the Conservative MP who chairs the Environmental Audit Committee,
"There have been significant missed opportunities in recent months: the Government could have gone further and faster"
The UK has some of the leakiest homes in Europe and progress to improve them has been slow.
It wasn't always that way. The number of energy efficiency annual installations peaked in 2012 at 2.3m thanks to government subsidies, but after David Cameron slashed support numbers fell, with fewer than 100,000 upgrades installed in 2021.
The MPs call for more money to be spent on insulation with the target of 2.5m homes being upgraded each year by 2030.
"The Government has committed £6.6bn this parliament and a further £6bn to 2028 to make buildings more energy efficient," a government spokesperson said, in response to the MPs report.
The spokesman said the government had also launched a new energy saving campaign, raising awareness of simple actions people can take to bring down the amount of energy needed to keep homes warm this winter.
The MPs also called for the fossil fuel industry to do more to reduce the emissions it produces during oil and gas production. The routine flaring of gas should be banned outright, they say, with more demanding targets and greater transparency.
There was clearly not agreement among MP's on the merits of recent controversial new fossil fuel projects.
The report simply calls for a "clear end date" for the new oil and gas licensing rounds in the North Sea so the government can "continue to demonstrate its international climate leadership".
In recent months, the government has infuriated environmentalists by approving a coalmine in Cumbria and green-lighting new oil and gas exploration. Both decisions are at odds with the recommendations of climate scientists and the United Nations that there can be no more oil, gas or coal if the world is to have any chance of keeping temperature rises under 1.5 degrees.
The government argues that North Sea gas will have a lower carbon footprint than importing gas from abroad.
In the last decade the UK has seen a rapid expansion in clean energy with renewables now making up about 40% of domestic electricity generation. Offshore wind is the biggest and most rapidly expanding contributor but on land it's become increasingly difficult to erect new turbines.
The MPs report calls for greater focus on the quick roll out of onshore wind and a closer look at the potential of tidal energy.
"Bold action is needed now," Mr Dunne said.
"The last year, with Russia's aggression in Europe choking energy supplies, has shown us just how vulnerable our over-reliance on imported fossil fuels can make us."
A charity has been given £140,000 to help deliver a new sustainable tidal barrier.
The Wildfowl and Wetland Trust (WWT) will assist Somerset County Council in delivering "environmental benefits" alongside the new floodgate in Bridgwater.
The money will go towards increasing biodiversity and encouraging wildlife.
Once completed, the £128m barrier is expected to protect around 11,300 homes and 1,500 businesses from flooding.
The WWT, which operates the Steart Marshes nature reserve at the mouth of the River Parrett, and helped to deliver the Meads 'eco park' on the western edge of Bridgwater, is expected to match the £140,000 promised by the county council through grant applications and fundraising.
The money will go towards increasing biodiversity and encouraging wildlife once the project near the Express Park is completed.
According to the Local Democracy Reporting Service, the charity in Slimbridge, was initially commissioned for two years to "identify opportunities and projects that would enhance sustainability and deliver environmental benefits" around the barrier area, with this work being funded by the district council.
Nick Tait, the county council's service manager for policy, said: "They are a charity with extensive experience and success in fundraising."
Sedgemoor District Council and the Environment Agency (EA) jointly put forward proposals in December 2019 for the new barrier, with final approval granted in January 2022.
Early versions of the tidal barrier plans, which were published in 2018, envisioned a riverside park being created on the west bank of the river, linking up to both the Express Park and Chilton Trinity via a cycle link over the barrier.
While the cycle link is expected to be retained - and will connect to new cycle links to the town centre, funded through the government's levelling up fund - further details of the park have not been made public.
In December the council agreed to transfer land within the Express Park to the Environmental Agency to aid the construction effort.
However, major construction work on the barrier has been partially delayed following the discovery of asbestos near the new access road being built on Saltlands Lane.
However, Mr Tait said that "detailed design work" would be completed this year, allowing construction to ramp up in early 2024.
People are being urged to take care and not disturb hundreds of seals that have arrived on a beach in a north Wales coastal town.
The grey seals have landed at Angel Bay at Llandudno, Conwy county, where they are expected to stay until spring.
The sea mammals are annual visitors to the area, where they come ashore to moult their old coats.
Up to 250 can be on the shore at Angel Bay at one time, especially at low tide.
However, it leaves them vulnerable if they are disturbed, by either the public or animals such as dogs.
The location of the beach on the Wales Coastal Path, and just outside the resort town, on the Little Orme headland, means the seals are attracting hundreds of sightseers every day.
On Wednesday, close to 50 seals could be seen from the headland.
"It's the first time to see them in their natural environment," said Pat Nilssen, from Chester, who is on holiday in the area.
"It's lovely, they're playing, they are having fun, lovely to see the young ones here too - to shed their coats."
The rocky beach now home to the seals, which is also known by its Welsh name of Porth Dyniewaid, is below a cliff that has been cordoned off by conservationists.
They want to ensure the seals, including many young pups, are not disturbed.
"I'm really glad to see they have some signs up and some barriers up to stop people going down and interfering with them," said Dave Haynes, another visitor who had come to see the seals.
"People used to do that - climbing down there, and letting their dogs off."
It takes up to six weeks for each seal to shed its old fur and grow a new coat, with the youngest moulting first.
The seals are expected to stay on the beach until about April, before they return to warmer spring seas, and start fishing and exploring more of the north Wales coast.
Friends of the Earth is to take legal action against the government over its decision to approve the UK's first major coal mine in more than 40 years.
The environmental campaign group argues Communities Secretary Michael Gove "acted unlawfully" when he approved the project in Cumbria last month.
The mine, near Whitehaven, is expected to extract millions of tonnes of coking coal for steel production each year.
The government said it acted on advice of the independent planning inspector.
Having initially been approved by Cumbria County Council in 2020, the mine became the subject of a public inquiry in 2021 and then the government repeatedly delayed its decision over the project's fate.
It was eventually given backing in December, but Friends of the Earth says it will file a legal claim later this month as it believes Mr Gove "failed to account for the significant climate impacts".
The company behind the Woodhouse Colliery scheme, West Cumbria Mining, argues it will create 500 highly skilled jobs with potential for 1,500 more in the supply chain.
Opponents say the mine would create more greenhouse emissions and its approval is contrary to the UK government's stated net zero goals.
Niall Toru, lawyer at Friends of the Earth, said: "With the world facing a climate emergency, we shouldn't have to take this challenge to court.
"Any sensible government should be choosing to leave coal in the ground and accelerating the transition to a safe, clean and sustainable future."
Rowan Smith, solicitor at Leigh Day which is representing the group, added: "A critical issue raised by Friends of the Earth during the inquiry was the signal that granting a new coal mine in the middle of a climate emergency would send to the rest of the world.
"Friends of the Earth believes that this was never properly grappled with by either the Inspector or the Secretary of State. We hope that the court will agree that this argument justifies a full hearing."
In response to news of the legal challenge, the Department of Levelling Up, Housing and Communities said in a statement: "The secretary of state has agreed to grant planning permission for a new metallurgical coal mine in Cumbria as recommended by the independent planning inspector.
"This coal will be used for the production of steel and will not be used for power generation.
"The reasons for the secretary of state's decision are set out in full in his published letter, alongside the report of the independent planning inspector who oversaw the inquiry into the proposal".
The spokesperson added that "given the quasi-judicial nature of this decision" it could not comment further but the government's "commitment to phase out coal for power generation by 2024 remains in place".
The project has divided opinion among people in Cumbria, with some welcoming the opportunity for much-needed jobs, while others have expressed concerns about the environmental impact.
Local campaign group, South Lakes Action on Climate Change, previously told the BBC it was mulling a judicial review in a bid to have the government's decision quashed.
Copeland's Conservative elected mayor, Mike Starkie, described the Whitehaven mine as "a huge economic investment", while Copeland's Conservative MP, Trudy Harrison, also welcomed the decision for its go-ahead.
Four swans have been killed by what police believe are suspects firing metal ball bearings from catapults.
Officers were called to the pond at Grange Hill in Coggeshall, Essex, at 20:30 GMT on Monday.
Three of the swans were found dead and a fourth died while being treated at a local veterinary practice.
Essex Police said it was investigating under the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981.
The force asked anyone with information, such as doorbell or dashcam footage, to contact them and quote the crime reference number 42/892/23.
BK Waste Management, which provides waste services across Essex, described the killings as "shocking behaviour" and said itself and another company were offering a £2,000 reward to anyone who could provide information that led to an arrest.
The UK's first research laboratory looking the impact of light pollution on human health and nature has been set up at Lancaster University.
The Dark Design Lab will study the adverse effects of too much artificial light in towns and cities.
Prof Nick Dunn said "protecting dark skies" is crucial to human health and the project will work with town planners to combat the problem.
"Light and dark is essential to us as human beings," he said.
"People who are exposed to excessive illumination at night, they're having their biological clocks go out of synch.
"If we get rid of dark skies than actually what is happening to us as humans is potentially very serious health consequences."
Prof Dunn, director of the laboratory, said 83% of the world's population live under a light-polluted sky, which rises to 99% of people in the UK, Europe and North America.
While he said he did not want to see cities plunged into darkness, the impact of artificial light also affects wildlife and can disrupt behaviours of migration of predation and mating.
"We want our cities and other places at night to be safe and inclusive for everybody," he said.
"But what we do need is responsible, lighting, so that we can make sure we have environments that are beneficial to all, but also for the many creatures that we share this planet."
A Humber port is believed to be the first in the UK to use a hydrogen-fuelled truck in an attempt to cut greenhouse gases.
The trial at Immingham docks in North East Lincolnshire will see the the vehicle haul shipping containers.
The hydrogen technology means that the vehicle will produce no exhaust emissions.
Funded as part of a government project, the trial aims to reduce carbon output in the maritime industry.
Maritime Minister Baroness Vere said the initiative showed the UK was "serious about cleaning up the sector".
"Decarbonising the maritime sector goes beyond cutting emissions at sea, and this trial demonstrates that hydrogen will play a significant part in UK's port operations and shed their dependence on fossil fuels," she said.
Figure from the International Maritime Organization (IMO), show that shipping produces a billion tonnes in CO2 emissions each year - around 3% of the world's total output.
In 2018, the IMO, the United Nations body which regulates the industry, agreed to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 50% by 2050.
Associated British Ports (ABP) also installed a mobile hydrogen filling station to fuel the vehicle.
Simon Bird, ABP's Regional Director of the Humber ports said he hoped the trial would show "how forward thinking we are in meeting the need to de-carbonise in the port".
Immingham is one of the UK's busiest ports, with around 55 million tonnes of cargo handled every year.
Last January, ABP announced a new £100m freight terminal which would create up to 100 jobs.
Edinburgh Zoo's giant pandas could leave the capital as early as the end of October this year, officials have confirmed.
Yang Guang and Tian Tian have to return to China under the terms of a 10 year loan, which was extended by two years due to the Covid pandemic.
The pair, who will not be replaced, have failed to produce offspring since their arrival in December 2011.
The zoo has been paying £750,000 annually to China for the pandas.
The Royal Zoological Society of Scotland (RZSS), which runs Edinburgh Zoo, said the details of the pandas' departure would be confirmed closer to the time.
It has now announced plans to give the pandas a "giant farewell".
RZSS members, patrons and giant panda adopters will be offered the chance to meet and feed Yang Guang through the bars of his enclosure.
Other experiences available to everyone will include panda talks and brunch events.
David Field, RZSS chief executive, said as the UK's only giant pandas, they had been "incredibly popular with visitors".
He said: "Through a new range of events and experiences, we will be providing as many opportunities as possible for people to say goodbye.
"After the pandas leave, we will decide on a new species with a crucial factor being how we can support conservation in the wild," he added.
In total, there were eight unsuccessful attempts at artificial insemination, with the last one in 2021 when the giant panda breeding programme was stopped.
A scheme allowing budding archaeologists to dig at a renowned Roman site has opened for applications.
The Vindolanda Trust is offering 10 bursary places for people aged between 18 and 20 to join digs at the settlement near Hexham, Northumberland.
Historic England, which is providing £10,000, said Vindolanda, close to Hadrian's Wall, was the "most exciting archaeological site in Europe".
The bursaries provide a two-week placement between June and August.
Four of the places are non-residential and open to those living in the Tyne Valley while the other six will fund residential places on the dig with young people from NE1 to NE44 postcodes eligible to apply.
A spokeswoman for Historic England said places on digs at Vindolanda usually filled up fast and the "costs of taking part" could be a "barrier to some young people", adding there was "an urgent need to tackle this issue" to "address the anticipated shortage of young people going into an archaeological career in the future".
Mike Collins, Historic England's Lead on Hadrian's Wall, said he hoped to "inspire a new generation of archaeologists who might have thought this career path was out of their reach".
Marta Alberti, Deputy Director of Excavations at The Vindolanda Trust, said: "The bursary winners will not only receive expert archaeological tuition but will also have a chance to immerse themselves in a new environment and make lasting connections with excavation participants from all over the world."
A similar scheme ran in 2022 and the closing date for applications this year is 31 January.
Forecasters warned that heavy rain could lead to flooding and travel disruption this week.
The Met Office issued a yellow warning of rain for southern, western and central Scotland as well as Aberdeenshire and the Highlands.
It was valid from 14:00 on Tuesday until 06:00 on Wednesday.
It said that occasionally heavy rain, and a thaw of snow lying on the hills, was expected to lead to localised floods and transport problems.
The Scottish Environment Protection Agency has issued 13 flood alerts around Scotland.
Police have advised people to check guidance for driving in adverse weather conditions.
The Met Office said: "Outbreaks of occasionally heavy rain, falling on to already saturated ground, during Tuesday and overnight into Wednesday are expected to bring some localised flooding across parts of western and central Scotland.
"Accumulations widely of 15-25mm are likely, with a few locations, mainly western hills, seeing as much as 50mm.
"In addition to the rainfall, rising temperatures will lead to a thaw of lying snow, especially over the hills and mountains to the north of the central belt of Scotland."
The yellow warning covered Angus, Perth and Kinross, Aberdeenshire, the Stirling area, Dumfries and Galloway, the Borders, East Ayrshire, East Renfrewshire, South Ayrshire, South Lanarkshire and West Dunbartonshire, as well as part of Argyll and Bute and the Highlands.
It came after heavy rain brought flooding and travel disruption in some areas on Friday.
At one point on Friday Sepa had 10 regional flood alerts in place, along with 29 local flood warnings and a severe flood warning for Dumfries.
The agency said levels at the River Nith reached the highest ever recorded, higher than Storm Frank in 2015 and flooding in December 1982.
The West Coast Main Line between Glasgow and Carlisle will remain shut for repairs until 6 January after flooding caused "significant damage" to an embankment.
Nature is to be prescribed by health professionals for the first time in England, following a successful pilot in Scotland.
The trial, in Derbyshire, will see prescribing services offer patients ideas such as listening to birdsong.
Tom Miller, a GP in Buxton, said: "Evidence is emerging that time outdoors is good for our health."
The project is being led by the RSPB and the Peak District National Park Authority.
They will work with two social prescribing services in the High Peak, which receive referrals from 13 different GP practices in the area, community mental health teams, adult social care and the Live Life Better Derbyshire scheme, as well as self-referrals.
Organisers said the Nature Prescriptions trial would include a leaflet and a calendar of ideas to enable people to connect with nature and boost their health and wellbeing.
They said there was growing evidence indicating the physical and mental health benefits of connecting with nature, including reduced stress, fatigue, anxiety and depression.
They said the prescriptions were based on accessible, self-led activities that people could do from home, on their own or with others.
The trial comes on the back of successful pilot projects ran by RSPB Scotland in the Shetland Isles and Edinburgh which resulted in over 74% of patients saying they had benefitted.
The project is now also expanding to other locations in Scotland.
Sarah Walker, nature and wellbeing project manager at RSPB England, said: "I'm thrilled to see the project coming to life in the High Peak and can't wait to see how people in the area benefit."
Dr Miller said: "Making sure we're taking care of our health and wellbeing is incredibly important, particularly in January when life can be a real struggle; the days are short and money can be tight.
"Evidence is emerging that time outdoors is good for our health and this is an ingenious, simple and cost-effective way to support people to do just that."
Jess McFall, social prescribing manager at High Peak Community and Voluntary Support, said: "To be the first area in England involved in Nature Prescriptions is exciting and inspiring.
"We've been really impressed with the materials and are eagerly looking forward to connecting our clients to nature and seeing the impact this may have on members of our community first hand."
Jo Hanney, ranger at the Peak District National Park, said: "We have decades of experience of enabling people to connect with nature in the Peak District National Park, but the RSPB Nature Prescription is a new way of working for us.
"We will be able to reach a far wider and more diverse audience by connecting people to the National Park through the prescription."
It is hoped the trial will be expanded across England and to other healthcare professionals in the future.
A popular dinosaur exhibit is to spend three years at a city museum.
Dippy the Diplodocus will take up residence at Coventry's Herbert Art Gallery and Museum from 20 February.
Museum bosses said there would be free ticketing to see the giant so all can enjoy the "world-class exhibition".
The 26-metre long (85ft) replica skeleton was seen by more than two million people on a UK tour after being dismantled from the Natural History Museum in 2017 after 112 years.
Dippy, who was first put on display in London in 1905, is comprised of 292 bones and ribs made from plaster of Paris, and takes a week to reassemble.
It was cast from five different skeletons, including one dug up by railway workers in the United States in 1898.
A report found the "Dippy effect" saw visitors increase everywhere it toured, including Birmingham, Cardiff and Glasgow.
Paul Breed, chief executive of CV Life, which runs the Herbert, welcomed the chance to host the UK's "most popular dinosaur", adding it was "a huge opportunity for Coventry and the wider economy".
"It's going to be a brilliant three years," he said.
Dr Doug Gurr, Natural History Museum director, said the "much-loved and hugely popular attraction" was "the perfect ambassador for nature", and would continue to educate and inspire.
"We couldn't be more thrilled that Dippy will now be taking up residence in Coventry," he added.
US astronaut Walter Cunningham, the last surviving member of the first Nasa mission to ever broadcast live TV from orbit, has died at the age of 90.
Apollo 7 was an 11-day manned mission in 1968 that tested the ability to dock and rendezvous in space. But the crew also won an Emmy for their broadcast.
It paved the way for the moon landing by Apollo 11 less than a year later.
Nasa confirmed Cunningham's death, and said that he was "instrumental to our Moon landing's program success".
A family representative said he died at a hospital in Houston on Tuesday from natural causes "after a full and complete life".
"We would like to express our immense pride in the life that he lived, and our deep gratitude for the man that he was - a patriot, an explorer, pilot, astronaut, husband, brother, and father," the Cunningham family said in a statement shared by Nasa, the US space agency.
"The world has lost another true hero, and we will miss him dearly."
Cunningham was born in Creston, Iowa, and went on to earn a masters degree in physics from the University of California in Los Angeles. While working as a civilian at the time, he was one of three astronauts chosen for the first manned spaceflight in the Apollo programme.
As lunar module pilot for Apollo 7, he was accompanied by Navy Captain Walter Schirra and Air Force Major Donn Eisele.
He had previously served in the US Navy and Marines and flew 54 missions in a fighter jet over Korea, retiring at the rank of colonel.
After retiring from Nasa in 1971, he became a public speaker and radio host. He also became an outspoken denier of human-caused climate change, despite the consensus from scientists that humans have contributed to warmer average temperatures on Earth.
In an interview for Nasa in 1999, he described his mindset during his time as an astronaut.
"I'm one of those people that never really looked back," he said.
"All I remember is just kind of keeping my nose to the grindstone and wanting to do the best I could as - I didn't realize at the time, but that was because I always wanted to be better prepared for the next step," he continued.
"I've always been looking to the future. I don't live in the past."
Hundreds of "high end" jobs building a new type of nuclear reactor are expected for west Cumbria, an engineering company has said.
TSP Engineering says it will build small modular reactors, also known as SMRs, from its manufacturing facility in Workington.
Chief executive John Coughlan said the workforce will expand from 250 to 1000.
Workington's Conservative MP Mark Jenkinson said the announcement was "fantastic news".
Mr Coughlan said his company will make the "NuCell" that will generate power for the National Grid.
The reactors - described as small enough to "easily fit inside a two-storey house" - could power an area the size of Carlisle and be worth "some tens of millions of pounds" to the local economy, he added.
In a statement, TSP said: "This announcement and manufacture of the NuCell reactor will enable Great Britain to develop its own energy supply and become a global leader with the first NuCell reactor units targeted to be manufactured by 2027, allowing TSP and Cumbria to be ahead of the rest of the world."
It added that employment would be secured and grown "across all trades, engineering disciplines and support professions" in Cumbria "for decades to come".
Mr Jenkinson, a self-confessed "strong advocate for new nuclear", said: "I continue to fight hard to support and encourage investment in developments such as this.
"We are fortunate to have a strong supply chain for the nuclear industry in the Workington constituency.
"Manufacturing and design of new nuclear in Cumbria will be another boost to our local skills base - and will help grow jobs and support innovation across the engineering sector in West Cumbria.
"The nuclear industry has its roots firmly established here, and it is great to see that we are building on our strengths and leading the way in innovation".
Temperatures for January have reached an all-time high in a number of nations across Europe.
National records have fallen in eight countries - and regional records in another three.
Warsaw, Poland, saw 18.9C (66F) on Sunday while Bilbao, Spain, was 25.1C - more than 10C above average.
The mild European weather comes as North America faces more severe storms, days after a deadly winter cold snap left more than 60 dead.
Heavy snow and freezing rain have been forecast for parts of the northern Midwest while severe thunderstorms and tornadoes are expected in Texas, Oklahoma, Arkansas and Louisiana.
But on the European side of the Atlantic, the weather has been balmy for many places at the start of the year.
Temperatures in the Netherlands, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Latvia, Czech Republic, Poland, Denmark and Belarus broke national records.
Station records were broken in Germany, France and Ukraine.
The temperature recorded in Warsaw on 1 January was 4C higher than the previous record for the month, and Belarus' record high was 16.4C, some 4.5C above the previous record.
In Spain, New Year's Day temperatures in Bilbao were equivalent to the average in July, and parts of Catalonia including Barcelona are subject to restrictions on water use.
Records are broken all the time, but it is unusual for the difference to be more than a few 10ths of a degree.
In Switzerland, temperatures hit 20C, and the warm weather has affected ski resorts across the Alps which have seen a snow shortage.
It's not all warm in Europe, though - colder temperatures and snow are forecast in parts of Scandinavia and Moscow is expected to drop to -20C by the weekend.
Just days earlier, the UK, Ireland, France and Spain declared 2022 their hottest year on record.
In the UK, every month but December was hotter than average. December itself saw snow fall across large parts of the country, although conditions are milder and wetter now.
Heatwaves have become more frequent, more intense, and last longer because of human-induced climate change.
However, warm winter events such as these do not have the same human impact as summer heatwaves, which can result in large numbers of excess deaths.
The world has already warmed by about 1.1C since the industrial era began and temperatures will keep rising unless governments around the world make steep cuts to emissions.
A man who was left paralysed after a crash is now dreaming of walking his daughters down the aisle after receiving innovative robotic therapy.
Luke Louden, 32, suffered a broken neck and back, alongside multiple serious leg injuries, in August 2020.
For more than two years the dairyman was forced to contemplate that he would never walk again.
But a new type of therapy at the Queen Elizabeth National Spinal Injuries Unit in Glasgow has given him fresh hope.
Mr Louden, from Whauphill in Dumfries and Galloway, said he "knew instantly" after the accident that he was paralysed.
"The doctors didn't say there was no chance of walking but they said there was a slim chance, " he said.
But a seemingly unrealistic prospect has now started to become a reality after he became the first patient to receive new therapy.
He said: "Quite quickly I began to feel the benefits, and now there's less pain, fewer spasms, I sleep better and I have lost weight.
"It's also been huge for my mental health."
Mr Louden's wife Anna and children Anna, eight, Chloe, six, Mary, four, and three-year-old Isaac have been his inspiration throughout his ordeal.
"They have kept me going - especially my wife," he said.
"I don't know how I would have managed without her. I've had some really dark times, but now I can look forward with real hope.
"The dream would obviously be to walk my girls down the aisle, so I'm going to keep going, to keep trying, for Anna and all my children."
Mr Louden is also confident further advances are round the corner.
He added: "Don't get me wrong, it's been tough and the future is daunting, but the team here have been amazing, and I know they've got my back."
Before starting his therapy Mr Louden said he was putting in so much work but seeing no return.
As a result he admitted: "I could feel my hope just draining away".
But the ZeroG Gait and Balance System, which NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde said is the first of its kind in Scotland, has proved to be transformative.
Mr Louden said: "It was really hard at the start, and I didn't really know what to do. I was really fit and active, so to lose the use of my legs was tough."
Last September he started using the robotic apparatus, which supports him during therapy and automatically synchronises with his movements, to help him walk and prevent falls.
Mr Louden said: "I've gone from hardly being able to move to being able to walk 20 metres non-stop on the bars. My record on the ZeroG system is 57 metres.
"I'd love to keep improving but to be honest, if I couldn't achieve any more I'd be happy the way I am. Just to be able to stand, even if it's with a frame, is amazing."
"If you'd asked me six weeks ago if I could even achieve that I'd have said don't be daft. But now I can stand next to my kids."
Claire Lincoln, senior research physiotherapist at the hospital, said patients using the machine could do a lot more before becoming too tired.
She added: "The system also allows us to be more creative with the activities we undertake, which means the patient gets more enjoyment and satisfaction while also seeing additional benefit."
"We are still learning the full potential of the system, but because of the support and added safety it gives patients, already it's allowed us to try therapies earlier than would have been possible before."
Dr Mariel Purcell, consultant in spinal injuries, said that since he started his career 30 years ago more patients now had the potential to get back on their feet.
He said: "We used to see a lot of young males, who had perhaps been in a car crash or suffered an industrial accident, but the advances in safety - seatbelt wearing and health and safety laws - have made a real difference.
"Now we are seeing damage that isn't as bad, and we're seeing older patients who have experienced lower-velocity injuries.
"This gives us a real chance to help these patients, and the ZeroG system will be instrumental in this work."
A new mate has been found for a bereaved beaver after his first partner disappeared.
The original animals were imported from Germany and released into an enclosure in the Forest of Dean in 2018.
But tragedy struck last summer when the female went missing, and after extensive searches ecologists concluded she was probably dead.
Forestry England said the new beaver from Scotland seemed to be settling well into her new Gloucestershire home.
A spokesperson said conservationists and volunteers had been initially unconcerned by the first female's disappearance at the Greathough Brook enclosure.
They believed she could have retreated into a lodge or burrow to give birth, but when she was not picked up on their trail cameras they began to fear the worst.
"We increased our monitoring on the site and the local team used beaver traps baited with apples to try and capture both animals to carry out a welfare check, weigh them and replace any ear tags that may have fallen off," the Forestry England spokesperson said.
But while the male was captured, there was no sign of the female.
Working with the Beaver Trust, Forestry England relocated a new female from Scotland to the Gloucestershire enclosure in October.
The two beavers found one another quickly, and seem to be very happy in one another's company.
"Since their first meeting they have been busy working together, making another new dam, maintaining the existing ones, felling trees and grooming each other - all good signs that they are forming a pair," the spokesperson said.
Beavers used to be commonplace in the Forest of Dean until about 400 years ago when they were hunted to extinction for their meat, fur and scent glands.
The decision to re-introduce them in 2019 was in the hope that their dam-building would reduce flood problems in the Lydbrook area and create an environment that would attract other wildlife.
A couple has managed to raise enough money to install solar panels on every house on their east London street.
Dan Edelstyn and Hilary Powell slept on the roof of their Walthamstow house for 23 nights in late November and early December, to raise their target of £100,000.
They surpassed their goal, raising just over £113,000.
More than 30 of their neighbours on Lynmouth Road will soon have solar panels installed on their houses.
Mr Edelstyn told BBC Radio London that originally the couple had the ambitious goal to "take Walthamstow off the grid" completely, but then decided to start with their own street first.
The pair went from door to door on their street, asking fellow residents if they would be willing to have solar panels installed "in order to cut your electricity bills and to help with the climate crisis".
Ms Powell said 35 houses on their street had already been surveyed and were ready to install solar panels.
She added the fundraising project was a "special experience" that had brought out the community spirit on the street, with neighbours bringing her and Mr Edelstyn breakfast while they were on the roof.
The couple has also worked with schools in the local area, raising money with a Christmas single to help Barn Croft Primary School own the solar panels on their roof amid budget cuts.
The song reached number 21 in the UK charts and they have raised just over £30,000 for Barn Croft Primary so far.
The couple hopes their project will inspire other neighbourhoods across London and the rest of the country to take action against climate change.
"It's not just about this one street, it's about this as a trigger for a street-by-street approach and the kind of growing awakening that we're seeing all around us that we can have the power to make change," Ms Powell said.
They have been holding their breath in the Swiss resort of Adelboden, as New Year temperatures in Switzerland hit a record 20C - the highest ever north of the Alps in January.
Many wondered if next weekend's ski World Cup would go ahead, as the usual snowy slopes were mud and grass.
Even at 2,000m (6,500ft), the temperature was above freezing.
In the end, the famous Chuenisbärgli piste has been approved for use for the big slalom events.
It took the help of an army of snow cannon, as well as a slight drop in temperature at the top of the run. But when the world's top men's skiers hurtle across the finish line, they will be on artificial snow.
Across the Alps, the unseasonably warm wet weather has put a real damper on the start of the ski season.
The word for it here is Schneemangel or snow shortage. There's a phrase for when the snow is plentiful too - das weisse Gold - white gold. It's a reflection of how many alpine communities depend on winter sports for their livelihoods.
This January, they are having to rethink.
In Austria, the resorts around Salzburg last had snow a month ago. In Chamonix in France, the snow cannon are idle because the water to fuel them is in short supply.
In Switzerland, some resorts have even opened their summer biking trails rather than try to offer winter sports. Others have simply shut down their ski lifts indefinitely.
Climate experts suggest we should not be surprised by this January weather. Global warming, they have long warned, will cause warmer, wetter winters. But as with the shrinking of the Alpine glaciers, the rate at which ski resorts become unviable seems to be accelerating.
Just a few years ago, Swiss resorts were warned that skiing below 1,000m was, over time, likely to become impossible as global temperatures rose. But this week, the resort of Splügen, at 1,500m considered "snow safe", shut down until further notice.
Hacher Bernet, the director of Splügen's ski lifts, graphically showed Swiss journalists why he had taken such a difficult decision.
Picking up a lump of snow from the slope, he held it out: not fluffy white powder, but a lump of dripping slush.
"It's really too wet, like in spring. For skiing, the snow needs to hold together - there's just too much water in this, it's impossible."
The highest resorts are staying open for now, but with the help of more and more snow cannon pumping out artificial snow.
That uses up vast amounts of water, which is not ideal when Switzerland has been carefully preserving water this winter in order to be able to generate enough hydropower to replace gas power shortages caused by the war in Ukraine.
In the long term, a new study by the University of Basel warns that higher resorts will have to rely increasingly on artificial snow to survive, raising their water consumption by up to 80%. This could cause conflict between the winter sports industry and local communities, whose energy comes from hydropower.
The study also predicts a huge increase in the cost of skiing, as resorts switch to ever more expensive and artificial ways to preserve their slopes. By the end of the century, it is feared that skiing, if it is still a sport at all, will be confined to the very rich.
As a result, anxiety is mounting across the Alps. After two years of reduced income because of the pandemic, winter resorts have been banking on a return to normal.
In February and March, schools in Europe break up for the winter "ski week". Tens of thousands of families will head to the mountains expecting to ski. Snow needs to come, soon.
But for now, the weather forecast remains warm and wet.
The head of two zoos says she remains positive for the future despite costs rising by more than £1m last year.
The Zoological Society of East Anglia, which runs Africa Alive at Kessingland, Suffolk and Banham Zoo in Norfolk, said 2022 was a year of "highs and lows".
Chief executive Claudia Roberts said the financial pressures in 2022 had "thrown every challenge" at zoo staff.
She said the society was hoping for "government support for organisations like us and other charities".
"It's quite terrifying, actually," Ms Roberts added.
"I think our bills with interest rates and energy have gone up nearly £1m in a year - so it's massive."
Ms Roberts said: "It was coming out of Covid to then go into that terrible storm in February - Storm Eunice - which knocked out our lion enclosure in Africa Alive and closed both our zoos, so we lost over £250,000 just from not being able to open for a period of time."
They had "probably spent something like £100,000" to adhere to government regulations brought in to restrict the spread of bird flu," she said.
"We take bio-security very seriously."
"I think sometimes people have an idea that zoos are commercial things, but they're really not," Ms Roberts added.
"They're all run completely not-for-profit - they're run to put back into the environment so that we can breed further animals and take really good care of our animals.
She said the teams were "looking forward to a period of calm, but also one where we can really intensify what our charitable objectives are, and really help work with our communities more - just to find peace and calm after what's been a very turbulent time for everyone."
"We're trying to make as many savings as we can to survive, but health and safety is our number one priority," she said.
"In a way, we've survived a really rocky period but... I know we've got an exciting future ahead and an exciting way to really help humanity - it's a positive view forward, and I'm really excited about that."
Penguin chicks and pygmy goats are among the new entries in the list of residents at London Zoo, which is conducting its annual census.
Plenty of new additions arrived in 2022, including a western lowland gorilla and two tiger cubs.
Each year, keepers take a record of all the animals at the zoo, which houses about 300 different species.
The count of every mammal, bird, reptile, fish and invertebrate usually takes about a week to complete.
As well as the annual full count, required as part of the zoo's licence, keepers also have an inventory that is updated continuously.
Dan Simmonds, operations manager of the Zoological Society of London (ZSL), which runs the zoo, said: "With more than 14,000 to count at ZSL London Zoo, our keepers all have their own ways of tallying up the animals in their care.
He said this included some keepers "taking pictures of the coral tank in Tiny Giants to avoid counting the same fish twice", to others "using training and rewards to count larger groups, such as our squirrel monkeys and Humboldt penguins".
Kittiwake nests have been cleared from a landmark bridge in Scarborough, leaving hundreds of the endangered sea birds homeless, bird watchers said.
Bird deterrent gel has also been added after concerns over excrement damaging the Grade II-listed Spa Bridge, North Yorkshire County Council said.
The council said it had consulted Natural England, which found it would not harm the birds' wider habitat.
Bird watcher Nick Addey is calling for alternative nesting sites to be built.
Kittiwakes are a small type of gull which are on the conservation "red list" and global numbers have fallen by 40% since the 1970s, according to the RSPB.
Mr Addey said the nests can build up over the years as the birds return to the bridge and form new nests on top of old ones.
"The nests can be up to about 10in tall, there are some big structures," he said.
"You also get some newer-breeding birds who have the smaller nests. They [council contractors] have cleared all those off, and then they have glued these little tubs of fire gel on, which give off a UV light that the gulls see as a flame so they don't go anywhere near."
Mr Addey said a similar issue had been dealt with near the Tyne Bridge, linking Newcastle upon Tyne and Gateshead, and artificial nesting sites - towers with ledges - had been built to house the displaced birds.
"This is a real opportunity for Scarborough - there is no reason why they couldn't provide one of these towers next to the bridge."
He said many people from the local birdwatching community had complained to the council about the measures, but admitted it was an issue which needed addressing.
"It's quite an issue for the council, kittiwakes are increasing in the town but they have decreased across the UK - that's why we are all upset about it," he said.
North Yorkshire County Council's corporate director for business and environmental services, Karl Battersby, said the impact of the measures would be monitored.
He said: "Before beginning the work, we commissioned an independent habitat assessment, as we are rightly required to do, and consulted Natural England. The conclusion was that the action would not be detrimental to the birds' wider habitat.
"The work was scheduled to avoid a time when birds would be present on the bridge. It involved cleaning off old nest material and excrement, treating with disinfectant and placing small pots of optical gel on the ledges."
He added: "This method was chosen over netting or electrical deterrents, as netting risked entangling birds, as well as being unsightly."
A major wind farm plan touted as a key part of Wales' transition to green energy must deliver local benefits, campaigners have said.
Bute Energy wants to build about 14 turbines on hills above Senghenydd and Llanbradach in Caerphilly and Cilfynydd and Pontypridd in Rhondda Cynon Taf.
It could power the equivalent of 81,000 houses a year from 2025.
But people in the nearby communities said the turbines would be too close to homes.
"If we can see and hear [the wind turbines] and if our wildlife and biodiversity is affected, we should at least benefit," said Pontypridd councillor Dawn Wood.
Bute Energy said it had already reduced the number of planned turbines, each 200m (656ft) high, in response to concerns.
It said the wind farm would help build a low-carbon, prosperous Wales, with most turbines within an area approved for wind farms in Welsh government plans for 2040.
Ms Wood, whose home overlooks a field where some of the turbines would be, said she was "positive about alternative energy and wind farms".
"Although the plans have been reduced as regards the number of turbines," she said, "we are concerned about the height and how visible they will be".
"We accept that there are good arguments for exploring alternative energy," she added. "But if our communities are affected by wind farms we feel they should be community owned."
The developer said it was talking about a community investment fund and supporting local economies .
Bute Energy's Aled Rowlands said: "Society is facing three crises: climate, cost of living and rebuilding the economy.
"Projects like this can help with all three," he said. "But there are a number of other different benefits that could come to this community.
"We are talking partly about jobs, skills and investment," he said. "On top of that we have a community benefit fund which is worth over £30m over the next 45 years going directly to communities around this plan."
The possibility of extra funding is important to local charities like Little Lounge, which supports children in their early years, and their families in Cilfynydd.
Katie Hadley, from Little Lounge, said: "I want to find out more about what [the wind farm] could offer us as a small community.
"I can understand that people will have questions about the development, because this is our village and we want to keep our beautiful surroundings.
"Valleys people are very proud and very protective over our communities," she said.
"We have to weigh that up with looking at alternative energy resources for the future.
"We know of the problems with fossil fuels, so there has to be a compromise but we don't want to compromise our community so we need more information," she added.
Bute Energy said a survey would take place to avoid historic monuments.
The Welsh government said: "We need a range of technologies, at different scales, to meet our future electricity needs as we move towards a net-zero energy system. Wind and solar are cost-effective options to generate electricity and have a clear role to play.
"We want to ensure local communities and people in Wales directly benefit from energy generated in Wales. We are taking action to support local and shared ownership and developing strong, local supply chains."
Work to build England's biggest wind turbine will start in February.
The 150-metre structure will dwarf the other turbines already in Avonmouth, Bristol, when it is finished.
Around 100 tonnes of steel and 1,000 tonnes of concrete will be needed to build it.
Project development manager David Tudgey said the turbine would be a "real testament of hope for the future".
It is hoped it will be up and running by spring, providing low-carbon electricity to 3,500 homes and saving 1,965 tonnes of CO2 per year.
The turbine is owned by community group Ambition Community Energy and planning permission was granted by Bristol City Council in 2020.
It is one of only a handful of onshore wind turbines to be approved since new planning laws came into effect in 2016 which made it much harder to build them.
The government vowed to relax these rules earlier in the month, after backbenchers threatened to rebel.
Charles Gamble, from Ambition Community Energy, said it was "quite a difficult site" because of the turbine's size.
"Size does make a difference," he said. "It generates a lot more electricity if it is bigger and higher.
"And the constraints around this area are very substantial," he added.
The turbine will stand next to a gas-fired power plant and will produce clean and cost efficient electricity, as the price of other energy sources rises.
Wind energy expert Andrew Garrad said: "There has been a hugely dramatic reduction in cost in wind turbines in the last couple of decades and they are now the cheapest in cash terms as well as being clean and quick.
"So it's a slam dunk. Why wouldn't we be doing it?"
A council is to monitor energy use of some of its historic buildings to help tackle climate change.
Cheltenham Borough Council is investing £151k in new systems they hope will also help reduce bills.
Several buildings, such as the Pittville Pump Rooms, will come under the scheme that aims to ensure energy use is properly managed.
Council chiefs say it will also help tackle the authority's financial pressures.
The buildings to be monitored also include The Wilson and Cheltenham Borough Council's offices, says the Local Democracy Reporting Service.
Councillor Alisha Lewis, climate emergency cabinet member, said the scheme is something they will fund with the council's green investment deal.
She said: "It will allow us to invest in sustainable solutions which will pay themselves, off.
"It will cover everything from making sure we are not powering things that aren't in use, through to ensuring that we can manage everything off-site.
"So if something happens and we need to change the heating in response to a weather event we can change that with ease remotely.
"It will help us reduce our energy consumption, therefore making solar panels more viable in the long run. But particularly it will be saving the council considerable amounts of money."
The council has also applied for government funding to carry out feasibility studies to launch two heat networks, which could provide heat for hundreds of homes and businesses in the town.
Council chiefs want to make the most of opportunities to recycle waste heat generated through mechanical processes in the likes of factories or commercial kitchens.
The town centre and the new Golden Valley Development are being considered as possible locations.
Heat networks work by using water to carry heat from a single source supplying homes and businesses through underground pipes.
Heat is brought into a building through a heat exchanger, which removes the need for boilers.
A looted ancient Egyptian sarcophagus that was on display at a US museum has been returned to Egypt.
The 2.9m (9.5ft) long "Green Coffin" dates back to the Late Dynastic Period, which spanned 664BC to 332BC, and belonged to a priest called Ankhenmaat.
It was looted from the Abu Sir necropolis in north Egypt by a global art trafficking network, which smuggled it through Germany into the US in 2008.
A collector loaned it to the Houston Museum of Natural Science in 2013.
The sarcophagus was repatriated after an investigation that lasted several years and was formally handed over by US diplomats at a ceremony in Cairo on Monday. The event was attended by Egypt's Foreign Minister Sameh Shoukry and Tourism and Antiquities Minister Ahmed Issa.
"Today's ceremony is emblematic of the long history of co-operation between the United States and Egypt on antiquities protection and cultural heritage preservation," said the US chargé d'affaires in Egypt, Daniel Rubinstein.
Mr Issa said the return of the sarcophagus showed Egypt's strenuous efforts to recover smuggled artefacts.
In September, Manhattan District Attorney Alvin Bragg said the Green Coffin, which was valued at over $1m (£830,000), was illegally trafficked out of Egypt by a multinational network of antiquities smugglers.
The network was also responsible for trafficking the "Gold Coffin", which was which was returned to Egypt in 2019, the Stele of Pa-di-Sena, which is also from the Late Dynastic Period and was handed over in 2020, and five pieces seized from New York's Metropolitan Museum of Art last year.
The US is not the only country to have returned antiquities to Egypt recently.
In 2021, Israel handed over 95 relics which had been smuggled into the country or found for sale in Jerusalem.
Last month, a university in the Republic of Ireland said it was planning to repatriate a sarcophagus, mummified human remains and canopic jars.
People looking to recycle their Christmas trees can drop them off at five locations across Cheltenham.
Cheltenham Borough Council said the trees should be free of lights, decorations, pots or stands.
The centres will remain open until Monday 16 January.
After this trees can be left on the kerbside for collection - although those taller than five feet (1.5m) need to be cut into sections before being put out.
Garden waste customers can leave their trees out with their bins on their first collection after 16 January.
The council added: "If you are not a garden waste customer, Ubico Ltd will collect Christmas trees from 16 January 2023 from the kerbside.
"Please remember garden waste collections will not be undertaken between 16 December 2022 and 16 January 2023."
Jersey had its hottest year on record in 2022, weather experts have said.
The average temperature in the island for the year went up by 0.2C (0.36F) to 13.56C (56.4F).
The hottest temperature record was also broken when it reached 37.9C (100.2F) in July.
Head of meteorology Paul Aked said the year saw "a number of new records" and that "every month except for December has been warmer than average, resulting in the overall warmest year on record".
He added that the sea temperature had "also been remarkable", staying "above average for each day throughout the year until 13 December".
Mr Aked said: "The warmer year and extreme temperatures during the summer months are impacts that we can expect to see more often as a result of our climate changing.
"Not every year will be as warm, but we expect to see more of the warmer temperatures over future years.
"Sixteen of the top 20 warmest years in Jersey have been in the last 30 years."
Climate Change Minister Hilary Jeune said the figures were "another stark reminder of the climate emergency we're facing".
She said that 2023 "must be the year that we make big strides... to reduce the emissions which lead to these increased temperatures and the associated impacts on food security, biodiversity and sea level rises, for example".
A vast area of peatbog in Scotland's Flow Country could become one of Unesco's newest World Heritage sites. But why do some people believe the landscape deserves the attention?
Heather Jardine was a girl when the machinery arrived to carve up the ground on hills around her home in Sutherland in the 1970s.
She remembers the peatbogs being drained as huge diggers were used to create massive ditches.
The land was being prepared for large blocks of commercial forestry, which involved the planting of millions of non-native trees.
Heather says: "It seemed quite exciting as a young child seeing all the planters and the activity.
"But later it was realised this had been the wrong thing to do.
"In the 2000s work started on taking all the forestry down and blocking up the ditches."
In the intervening years, the importance of the environment which had been damaged had become clear. The repair work continues to this day.
The Flow Country contains the most intact and extensive blanket bog system in the world.
This expanse of peatlands, bogs, pools, lochs, hills and mountains covers large parts Caithness and Sutherland in the north Highlands.
It is about 50 miles across - roughly the distance from Glasgow to Edinburgh - and covers almost a million acres of land.
The peatlands, which have been growing for 10,000 years, are formed by layers of waterlogged mosses and other vegetation as they die off.
The plant life does not fully decay due to acidic conditions, so the material retains some of the carbon it absorbed when at the surface of the bog.
In places, the peat is 10m thick - deep enough to submerge two double decker buses stacked on top of one another.
The Flows provide habitat for birds, otters and water voles, and is carpeted with sphagnum moss. Its other plant life include sundews, which feed on insects that get trapped in their sticky tentacles.
It helps combat climate change by storing an estimated 400 million tonnes of carbon. Damaging the peat risks releasing harmful greenhouses gases into the atmosphere.
A bid for Unesco World Heritage status is to be formally submitted this early year, with a decision from Unesco expected in 2024.
Seven areas, amounting to a total of 469,500 acres of the Flow Country, would form the new site.
The designation would recognise the ongoing ecological and biological processes of the bog, as well as its biodiversity.
The idea of securing this status has been around since the late 1980s, but over the past few years The Flow Country Partnership has been leading work to secure local support for the formal bid.
The area is sparsely populated, with small communities around the fringes of the blanket bog. The nearest towns are Thurso and Wick.
Many of the residents earn their livelihoods from crofting and farming, while others works in tourism, at the Dounreay nuclear power complex near Thurso, or on offshore wind developments.
Heather Jardine, like many of the other residents, holds down a variety of different jobs. She is a crofter, hairdresser and holiday accommodation owner.
She lives in Strath Halladale, in the centre of the Flow Country, and supports the bid for Unesco status.
Her late father moved from England to work at Dounreay 60 years ago and he loved the area so much that he never left.
Heather shares his passion for the Flow Country and does not want to see a repeat of damaging activities on the peatland she witnessed in the 1970s.
"We are in the heart of nature here," she says.
"We cannot imagine not seeing all the stars at night and not being able to swim in clean rivers in summer."
Norrie Russell has lived in Strath Halladale for 27 years, 20 of them managing RSPB Scotland's 52,000-acre Forsinard Flows national nature reserve, and then latterly in an advisory role working with local crofters and farmers.
He is also chairman of Halladale Hall and Amenities Association.
"One of the things I have always loved here is the strength of community," he says.
Norrie believes securing Unesco status could offer new opportunities in sustainable tourism and branding of local produce, while at the same time highlighting the environmental value of the peatland.
He says traditional livelihoods such as crofting and farming could continue as they are, adding that they already play a key role in providing grassland habitat for vulnerable species such as curlew.
Norrie says: "The landscapes themselves, I think, are incredibly special.
"They are not everybody's cup of tea, not everybody likes landscapes that are wide and open, but a huge number of other people will travel a long distance to spend time here."
He adds: "In the spring when the greenshank and golden plover are singing, it's a fantastic place."
However, there are others who have worries about the potential effect of the designation.
Willie Findlay has farmed on 3,000 acres near Melvich for almost 30 years. He has diversified into offering buggy tours of his farm, and says world heritage status could help bring more tourists to the area.
But he has concerns about possible negative effects on agriculture, and restrictions on developments such as wind farms.
Willie, who farms 750 Cheviot sheep and 24 cows, says: "I already have 800 acres under sites of special scientific interest designations and I am quite restricted in the numbers of livestock I can have on those areas.
"I am concerned a world heritage site would also impose restrictions."
Dr Steven Andrews, Flow Country world heritage project coordinator, says it was acknowledged during public consultations there were big concerns around perceived new restrictions.
But he says most people would not notice any change to their lives on a day-to-day basis.
"World heritage will bring no extra restrictions," he says.
"What Unesco require is protection to already be in place. The boundary we have come up with is already covered by the highest level of protection you can give it, 73% of it is covered by that."
Steven, who grew up on the margins of the Flow Country, hopes Unesco can help raise the profile of the Flows and other peatlands.
"It is a bit of an enigmatic landscape, as many peatlands are. They are difficult to access and I think that is one of the biggest challenges," he says.
"This is about helping people understand their value."
Steven adds: "The Flow Country has been neglected to a certain extent, though the people who live in and around there understand it.
"It is so important these peatlands are understood and by sharing it would mean a lot to me and, I think, it would mean a lot to local people."
WWF Scotland and RSPB Scotland are among those watching the world heritage bid closely.
Ruth Taylor, agriculture and land use policy manager, says: "The Flow Country is Europe's largest blanket bog, a huge carbon store and a precious habitat for many rare plant and animal species.
"Declaring it a Unesco World Heritage site would recognise just how important our peatlands are, and the benefits they can bring for the environment and local communities."
Ben Oliver Jones, site manager of RSPB Forsinard Flows, said the designation would be recognition of an important landscape and an accolade to those who live and work there.
He added: "World Heritage site status for the Flow Country would shine a brighter light on peatlands globally, prompting fresh efforts to conserve, restore and research these landscapes in other parts of the world."
Volunteers are being recruited to identify sharks, skates and rays captured on underwater cameras around the Welsh coast.
Data from more than 90 hours of footage needs to be logged to help build a picture of the diversity of species.
Volunteer Matt Thomson said he was already hooked and hoped to see a "really rare" angel shark during his work on the project.
Sharks Inspiring Action and Research with Communities (SIARC ) is a collaboration between Natural Resources Wales and the Zoological Society of London as well as communities in Gwynedd.
Throughout the summer of 2022, protected and critically endangered species were filmed by remote underwater cameras in a special conservation area off the Llyn Peninsula.
Previously for researchers' eyes only, the footage is now available to everyone via the Instant Wild website.
These "citizen scientists" are asked to log the types of sharks, skates and rays they see, helping to save researchers lots of time and effort.
Joanna Barker from the Zoological Society of London said: "We'll have a scientist reviewing all the footage, but the citizen scientists will be the validator.
"We'll be able to compare both the scientist and citizen scientist scores and data and it'll just really improve the scientific data that we get out of this project."
Mr Thomson has been logging exotic wildlife using the Instant Wild app for 10 years.
He said: "I'd really like to see an angel shark - that's what the project's all about, they're very rare.
"I'll be very surprised if we do actually see any and I'd be really excited to see a basking shark.
"But there's plenty of other things to keep you interested. Any shark, skate or ray that you see on these cameras is going to be really interesting."
Jake Davies grew up on the Llyn Peninsula and is now the project coordinator for SIARC, helping to set up the underwater cameras.
Fishing crews have helped him find the liveliest spots and he said the footage revealed a previously hidden world.
"Every time we say we're studying sharks, many people are surprised that we have sharks present off the Welsh coast," he said.
"But Wales hosts a range of different shark species, over 25 in fact, from one of the rarest in the world - the angel shark - to one of the largest, which is the basking shark."
Whether it is crabs tussling with sharks or curious conger eels, the project has delivered amazing visuals for the public.
Researchers are now hoping to get the clearest picture yet of life at the bottom of the sea.
When Javier Lijo bought nine acres of deforested land atop a Panamanian island, he had an eye on the waves below.
A keen surfer, the Argentine had always dreamed of a leisurely life surfing the sea, away from the car-filled giant metropolises of Latin America. But a love of sustainable living took him in a different direction.
Over 20 years, and with the help of the local indigenous Ngäbe-Buglé people, he turned his land on Isla Bastimentos, on Panama's Caribbean coast, into a thriving, forested eco-haven.
Mr Lijo hopes his example can serve as a model for others who are looking to reforest cleared land.
The 52-year-old pulls down the soaked leaves of one plant as he guides visitors on a tour of his Up in the Hill eco-farm, explaining that water retention in this particular species is so great "you can shower with it".
To the uninformed, his land looks wild. But much of it is farmed: one part has timber trees for making furniture, in another cacao trees for chocolate, near the top a garden for herbs, and everywhere throughout the forest a variety of fruit, vegetables and flowers.
Most of the products he sells locally.
It is a big change from when Mr Lijo bought the land in 1996. Then it was cleared grazing land for cows, full of mosquitoes and flies, but he fell in love with it anyway.
As he began to manage the land, he read about the theory of permaculture - a sustainable way of living that emphasises recycling and reducing impact on the planet. From that, he had an idea for an eco-haven farm free of pesticides, where everything had a use.
He said that his vision was one where "education, working with the community, diversity of materials in the farm, different ways to make money and live" would all come together.
First he had to learn the basics, and for that, he turned to the indigenous people who have been managing Panama's forests for centuries.
The indigenous Ngäbe-Buglé have a number of nearby settlements.
Mr Lijo first met 53-year-old Benjamín Aguilar in 2000 when he asked him for help cutting trees on the farm.
Soon Mr Aguilar was advising him on how to manage the land, what to plant, and what trees to use for timber.
"I taught him how to produce cacao, how to ferment it and the time it takes to roast it," Mr Aguilar recalls.
Mr Lijo says that the Ngäbe-Buglé have shown him "everything" he knows about how to manage the land. "They have a lot of knowledge - it's generation after generation, hundreds and hundreds of years."
He is not the only one who has realised the value of indigenous knowledge to forest conservation, especially as more than half of Panama's mature forest is located in indigenous territory.
One of the world's foremost tropical biology research institutes, the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (STRI), runs several projects in which its scientists work alongside indigenous peoples.
Prof Catherine Potvin, a research associate at STRI who has worked with indigenous people in Panama for more than 20 years, explains why the approach works so well.
"Indigenous people cultivate to not necessarily become rich and make big enterprise. They don't have this concept of economic growth," she says.
"They're just seeking sustainability. They want to sustain themselves and their territory over the long term."
Indigenous land management also provides "green infrastructure" that can protect the environment, such as soil in intact forests which can absorb water to prevent flooding and release it during the dry season to prevent droughts.
Mr Lijo has noticed that the quality of the soil on his land has improved since he started reforesting. There is also more biodiversity with a variety of animals such as monkeys, birds, bees and armadillos returning to the farm which before was used to graze cattle.
Most notable are the strawberry dart frogs. A nearby beach is named after them, but their numbers had dwindled as tourism and clearing for farmland on the island threatened their habitat.
"For more than three years (after buying the land) we never saw the frogs but now they are everywhere," Mr Lijo explains.
His work is a microcosm of what is taking place elsewhere in Panama.
Jefferson S Hall is a staff scientist at STRI who has led reforestation efforts which have protected the Panama Canal from floods.
In October, the institute reached an agreement with the Ngäbe-Buglé to create a reforestation project on their territory which will capture carbon and improve the ecosystem.
"People were initially sceptical as they have seen outsiders make lots of promises, promises that they did not keep," Mr Hall says.
"We are at the beginning of a long-term relationship. We are at the start of our learning curve. We have been impressed, but not necessarily surprised, at how enthusiastic people are to plant trees."
As for Mr Lijo's project, Mr Hall is adamant that it may be small but he is convinced even small efforts have the potential to prove helpful.
"One of my often repeated phrases is that reforestation has to be done one landowner at a time," he says. "So, good for the person who has done it."
A dog had an "incredibly lucky" escape after tumbling 50ft (15.24m) off a dam wall in Devon.
Oban, a 20-month-old black Labrador, ran off from his owners during a Boxing Day walk in woodland near the Burrator Reservoir on Dartmoor.
In a panic, he jumped off the dam in an attempt to find them on a walking route below.
Oban suffered a broken leg and puncture wounds but managed to survive the steep drop.
Mark Harding, one of Oban's owners, said he was elated to find him alive.
He said the dog went missing about 13:00 GMT as his family went for a walk near the dam.
"Oban was doing what he normally does and ran ahead a little bit - he obviously lost us, panicked and tried to find his way back on the route he came from," he said.
"I understand he ran across the dam, some people tried to catch him because they could see he was beside himself.
"He decided the best way to get back to where he'd come from was to jump onto the parapet of the dam itself and leap 50 feet down to ground level.
"The drop is horrendous."
Oban was spotted in the woods by a member of the public but he again ran off.
He was eventually found by members of the Tavistock branch of the Dartmoor Search and Rescue Team in dark and wet conditions four hours after he went missing.
Catherine Jones, a vet from the rescue organisation, said volunteers surrounded the dog to stop him running off again.
Oban's owners then made their way to him so he could be reunited with them.
Ms Jones said: "It's amazing he didn't have more serious injuries like a ruptured diaphragm or something like that given the height he had fallen.
"He's incredibly lucky."
Oban is expected to spend 12 months in recovery after surgery on his leg.
New York has become the latest US state to allow so-called human composting.
A person can now have their body turned into soil after their death - which is seen as an environmentally friendly alternative to a burial or cremation.
Also known as "natural organic reduction", the practice sees a body decompose over several weeks after being shut in a container.
In 2019, Washington was the first US state to legalise it. Colorado, Oregon, Vermont and California followed suit.
New York is therefore the sixth American jurisdiction to allow human composting, following Saturday's stamp of approval from Kathy Hochul, the state's Democratic governor.
The process happens in special above-ground facilities.
A body is put in a closed vessel along with selected materials such as woodchips, alfalfa and straw grass, and gradually breaks down under the action of microbes.
After a period of around a month - and a heating process to kill off any contagion - loved ones are given the resulting soil. This can be used in planting flowers, vegetables or trees.
One US firm, Recompose, has said its service can save a tonne of carbon compared with a cremation or a traditional burial.
Emissions of carbon dioxide are a major contributor to climate change, because they act to trap the Earth's heat in a phenomenon known as the greenhouse effect.
Traditional burials involving a coffin also consume wood, land and other natural resources.
Proponents of human composting say it is not only a more environmental option, but also a more practical one in cities where land for cemeteries is limited.
New York's approval of the process was "a huge step for accessible green death care nationwide", one Washington-based provider, Return Home, told the New York Post.
But, for some, there are ethical questions about what happens to the soil which results from the composting.
Catholic bishops in New York state reportedly opposed the legislation, arguing that human bodies should not be treated like "household waste".
Concerns have also been raised about the cost of composting. But the firm Recompose - whose facility in Seattle is one of the world's first - says its $7,000 (£5,786) fee is "comparable" with rival options.
The median sum in the US for a funeral with a burial was $7,848 in 2021, or $6,971 for a funeral with a cremation, according to the National Funeral Directors Association (NFDA).
Human composting is already legal throughout Sweden. And natural burials - in which a body is buried without a coffin or with a biodegradable coffin - are permitted in the UK.
Travellers have faced Hogmanay disruption on Scotland's railways after Friday's floods.
The West Coast Mainline is closed between Carlisle and Scotland with a landslip causing damage to the track.
The Glasgow Queen Street to Edinburgh line had to be closed for a number of hours due to severe flooding but it has since reopened.
Flood warnings have now been lifted, but Met Office alerts for ice are in place the whole of Scotland.
Network Rail said its engineers had been assessing the landslip on the west coast mainline to establish what repairs are needed to reopen the railway south of Carstairs. It said the line would remain closed for the rest of Saturday.
Meanwhile, engineers worked through the night to clear a landslip on the line just south of Markinch station in Fife.
Train passengers for services north of Edinburgh and south from Aberdeen and Inverness are currently advised not to travel.
At one point on Friday Sepa had 10 regional flood alerts in place, along with 29 local flood warnings and a severe flood warning for Dumfries.
Sepa said levels at the River Nith reached the highest ever recorded, higher than Storm Frank in 2015 and flooding in December 1982.
Marc Becker, Sepa's flood duty manager said: "Across Friday we saw Scotland hit with yet another significant flood event, with southern and central Scotland heavily impacted this time in particular. This comes after recent flooding impacts in the east and north-east of Scotland in November.
"What made Friday's event notable was not only the intense nature of the rainfall, but also the rapid and extreme rises in river levels which led, in the Nith, to the highest ever recorded river levels.
"Whilst across Hogmanay and New Year's Day we're seeing an improving picture, we'll see rain, sleet and snow on higher grounds, particularly across the Bells.
"With residual impacts on the ground, particularly in Southern and Central Scotland, we're encouraging people living, working and travelling to remain vigilant, steer clear of flood water and follow the latest information from Sepa, transport authorities and Police Scotland."
Two yellow weather warnings remain in place heading for New Year.
An ice warning has been issued for the whole of Scotland from 18:00 on Sunday until 11:00 on Monday.
The Met Office said the deadly bomb cyclone that sent temperatures plunging in the US over Christmas was causing the unsettled weather in the UK.
Meteorologist Simon Patridge said the impact on Scotland would be "nowhere near as dramatic".
The Dumfries and Galloway Virtual Operations Support Team website was activated on Friday, signifying a major incident in the region.
Dumfries and Galloway Council closed The Whitesands in Dumfries to traffic from 10:00, before the River Nith burst its banks in the afternoon.
Nith Councillor David Slater said he remembered plans to install a flood system in Dumfries dating as far back as 2000.
He began a campaign for a flood barrier in 2015 after there had been several failed attempts.
"I brought engineers from a flood barrier company down here who do these rising walls," he said.
"They came and spoke at a meeting in George Street and 150 people attended and it was virtually unanimous that people would want something like this to keep the views of the river and keep the car parking as well because that's very important for the town."
Although a flood barrier has been approved following a public inquiry, the planning team has requested an extension from the Scottish government because its current deadline is 23 March.
"It's now years out of date," Cllr Slater added. "Technology has moved on in leaps and bounds and we're trying to build something that many thousands of people have said no to because it will build over the steps of the bridge.
"Most politicians stand beside the bridge, its the most photographed area in the town, the bridge is very old."
Ross Anderson, who runs the bike shop and cafe, the Frothy Bike company in Dumfries says his premises have been severely flooded.
He said: "We got down before the water crossed the road, we had time to put sandbags down as best we could.
"I'd say still at the time we didn't know how deep it was going to be so we built about a 2ft sandbag wall out the front, put our pumps in place, put sandbags at the back door.
"We had loads of family helpers in here so we took down our Christmas decorations, we thought it was going to be a usual flood to our front door and nothing more but evidently it was more."
He said that within an hour the water was knee deep in the shop and that he main damage had been to cooking equipment and white goods.
His team have already begun the clean-up.
"If we work hard over the next week, it might well open the first week of January," he added.
"If it's the second week then that's acceptable but if it leads into February because of complications or financial reasons, that's when it'll really start to take its toll on the business.
"The longer we stay shut, the harder it is to open, it's not easy."
A wildlife trust has appealed for young people who want to improve their local environment to join a new project.
The scheme will be led by youngsters and is aimed at making positive change in the area, Staffordshire Wildlife Trust said.
Two drop-in events will be held in January to start the 18-month project.
"It can be isolating when you're trying to speak out about environmental issues," Alexis Johnson, from the trust, said.
"We want to bring young people who care about our environment together in a safe space to work together."
Learning, training and venues will be provided by the trust which received £24,725 for the scheme from two NHS charities.
A frog that travelled 4,000 miles (6,400km) in a bunch of bananas was among one of the strangest animal rescues of the year, according to the RSPCA.
In 2022, its officers responded to some "weird and wonderful" animal rescues.
The charity was called to thousands of incidents where birds, wildlife, pets and farm animals found themselves in tricky spots.
The RSPCA said it was an "honour" to lend a helping hand to animals in need.
One of the first to be rescued in 2022 was Nacho, a six-month-old seal pup who appeared next to a riverbank by the Old Lock & Weird Inn in Keynsham, Bristol, on 2 January.
"The River Avon runs from the coast all the way along through Keynsham where the pub is situated at the water's edge, so it's likely he found his way there swimming upstream from the coast," said RSPCA wildlife supervisor Paul Oaten.
Two days later, on 4 January, a fellow seal pup was found on a cliff in Weybourne, Norfolk, 50ft (15m) from the beach next to a brick wartime pillbox.
"I was quite surprised to find this seal so far up - he must have just taken a wrong turn and then followed the coastal path before ending up on the cliff edge," said the RSPCA's Amy Pellegrini, who took the pup down to a safe spot on the nearby beach.
The RSPCA responded to several incidents of foxes getting their heads stuck, including an incident in February where a vixen became trapped in a watering can in Colchester, Essex.
Later that month, a fox was found with a large tin can of dog food in Barking, London.
RSPCA inspector Dale Grant said it proved "how dangerous litter can be".
In London, several foxes were rescued in the space of a month after getting their heads stuck in the central hole of wheels, including a cub which had found its way into a shed in Orpington.
"The residents had also discovered his sister in the shed, anxiously watching her brother," explained rescuer Rodney Kenny of the incident in April.
Mr Kenny said there was "no time to spare" as it was likely the fox had been stuck for several days without food or water, but it was quickly extracted with soapy water and both cubs were taken in to care.
In July, customers eating at a McDonald's in Bognor Regis, West Sussex, found a 5ft (1.52m) boa constrictor slithering through the fast food restaurant.
The non-venomous snake was passed on to staff, who placed it in a box before it was collected by the RSPCA.
In August, rescuers used barbecue tongs to pull a hedgehog free from an open drain in Hull, East Yorkshire.
"It was great teamwork... it involved a little bit of gentle persuasion and the use of some BBQ tongs to carefully ease him out of the drain," said the RSPCA's Gary Cotton, who checked the hedgehog over with fellow rescuer Laura Barber before releasing it back into the wild.
In September, fire crews were called to help another hedgehog, after it tumbled 25ft (7.62m) into an historic ice house on The Dawnay Estates near Scarborough, North Yorkshire.
"The deep well was dug and used to store ice during the summer in the 1800s and, while no longer used, has been preserved for visitors," said Insp Thomas Hutton, who was called to help.
The RSPCA was called in September after a Hispaniolan common tree frog travelled 4,300 miles (6,920km) from the Dominican Republic to the UK in a bunch of bananas.
"We were unpacking the shopping in the kitchen and my wife turned to me and said 'look there's a frog in the bananas' and I said 'sorry, there's a what in the bananas?'," said Iain Holloway from Tamworth, Staffordshire.
Rescuer Jonny Wood said the frog was in good condition, despite its long journey.
In Newcastle, a small finch flew through the open window of a Next store on 13 November, and was finally caught two days later.
"She just couldn't fly back out and was flitting around the displays over three floors," said rescuer Rachael Hurst.
"No doubt the bright decorations in the Christmas displays attracted her and at one stage she'd landed on top of a tree and seemed very happy to stay there too."
RSPCA inspectorate commissioner Dermot Murphy said: "With our teams out rescuing animals from danger and suffering 365 days a year, we are often their only hope.
"It's an honour to be able to lend a hand to animals in desperate need and we hope people enjoy seeing some of the weird and wonderful places animals have found themselves in need of our help."
There are more trees and shrubs in Belfast than there are people, and the One Million Trees project is more than doubling that number.
Beginning in 2020, it is a 15-year programme to increase tree cover.
It was one of the reasons Belfast was listed as one of the world's leading climate action cities in 2022.
The One Million Trees Project has the backing of planting organisations, landowners and Belfast City councillors.
"We took the proposal to the main planting organisations - the Woodland Trust, National Trust, Conservation Volunteers, Belfast Hills Partnership - and we got the support of the landowners," said Peter Carr, from the One Million Trees Project.
"With the planters and the landowners on board, we could approach the politicians.
"The City Council has taken on ownership of the project. It's an ambitious target, but we feel if we can get community support, get the city behind us, we can hopefully achieve that goal."
While the cold weather might not be to everyone's taste, it is ideal for planting young saplings around the city.
Volunteers from Queen's University Belfast are supporting the project, growing native saplings at the Lennoxvale Nursery in south Belfast, with the help of the Sans Souci Residents' Committee.
"We've planted and grown around 1,000 saplings," said Sara Lynch, the university's head of sustainability.
"Most recently those saplings have been replanted up in Malone Playing Fields, so we have around 500 native oaks planted there.
"The acorns that grew those oaks came from Belvoir Park Forest, which has some of the oldest oaks in Ireland."
It has helped bring the community in the Malone area together.
"It's great just getting out in nature for the mental health," said QUB Handy Helper volunteer Lydia Hosain.
"Definitely it does help, meeting new people and getting to know the locals as well.
"While you're a student living up in Queen's, you don't get to know the other people around Belfast, but through Handy Helpers and initiatives like helping out at the tree nursery, you really do get to meet new people and it's fantastic."
Apart from enhancing the appearance of the city, trees play an important role in absorbing carbon and improving air quality.
They also help with flood prevention and support local biodiversity.
The iTrees Eco Report, carried out in 2022, found almost a quarter of Belfast (23%) was made up of tree cover, with about 808,000 trees and shrubs, comprised of 83 species.
It found stark differences across the city for tree coverage, ranging from 32% in Poleglass to just 4% in the Shankill.
And it estimated the "amenity value" of that tree canopy cover at £4.6bn, thanks to the trees' carbon absorption capacity, cooling effect and flood alleviation contribution.
"There are so many benefits to planting trees," said Peter.
"It'll help us fight climate change, it'll help increase the health of the population, it'll increase the beauty and the amenity of the city.
"So many advantages to planting trees."
The One Million Trees project is a little ahead of schedule, with about 64,000 planted already.
It helped Belfast achieve an A rating from an international charity for its efforts to tackle climate change.
"There are lots of ways you can get involved," said Peter.
"You can get involved as individuals, you can get involved through your work, through your church, through your children's schools, through sports clubs - all sorts of ways to make a contribution.
"And we feel if the city gets behind the project, then we've a real chance of meeting that million trees objective.
"In a small city with a relatively small tree population, we hope it will be transformational for Belfast."
It has been a year of extremes in Wales.
From the worst storm in a generation to sweltering heat, with the two hottest days ever recorded.
There were also political storms, strikes and Wales welcomed refugees from the war in Ukraine that left us all facing a cost of living crisis.
It has also been a year of "getting back to normal" as Covid rules were lifted and we began to deal with the aftermath of a global pandemic.
Prime ministers came and went while the rest of us were stopped from going anywhere by rail strikes, cancelled flights, traffic jams and closed bridges.
Our sports stars suffered both agony and ecstasy, from gold at the Commonwealth Games, a shock return in rugby and 64 years of hurt brought to a wonderful end at football's World Cup that had us all humming a 40-year-old folk song.
The Urdd, Wales Today and Aberystwyth University all celebrated significant anniversaries while we said goodbye to two heroes of Welsh rugby and one of our most beloved actresses.
And, of course, we bode farewell to a monarch and welcomed a new king and a new Prince and Princess of Wales.
So what made the news in the past 12 months?
While Covid heroes and sports stars celebrated recognition in the New Year's honours, there was likely a few clearer heads than normal on New Year's Day as coronavirus still loomed large.
Nightclubs were closed, we were still wearing face masks and we all had to choose just who would be be in our 'group of six' for any social gatherings with First Minister Mark Drakeford at odds with Boris Johnson - remember him?
Their conflict was a continual theme right to the prime minister's departure in July.
For those stuck at home, a film about the campaign to save a Carmarthen cinema hit the small screen and leading Flintshire actor Jonathan Pryce would later receive a knighthood from the Queen.
While we battened down the hatches for Storm Eunice which caused widespread flooding and damage, Wales was shaken by three disturbing court cases.
A 19-year-old admitted killing his younger sister in a caravan park.
Three people, including a 17-year-old girl, were found guilty of murdering a doctor in a homophobic attack in Cardiff city centre park.
And 27 people were charged and 18 later put behind bars over the riot that took place in Swansea's Mayhill area the previous summer.
After we celebrated St David's Day, the arrival of spring brought plenty of reasons for optimism.
Our football fans were being revered for their signing, mischievous children rejoiced when smacking was made illegal and we were able to tear off our face coverings as Wales scrapped its last Covid restrictions.
The feeling of optimism failed to reach our national rugby team, beaten in Cardiff by Italy for the first time. Even worse was to come later in the year...
Lifting Covid restrictions sparked an Easter getaway in April, only for many holidaymakers to be grounded by airline staff shortages and a ferry link from Fishguard was also suspended after P&O sacked 800 staff.
The month also saw the mother of Logan Mwangi found guilty of the five-year-old boy's murder, alongside his stepfather and a teenage boy.
Pollution in some of our most beautiful areas of Wales raised its ugly head again with the emergence of a sewage-linked parasite in one of our rivers and human faeces on Snowdon.
Tory politician Jamie Wallis was praised after becoming the first MP to come out as trans but was later fined and disqualified from driving after failing to stop at the scene of an accident.
Politics dominated the start of May as Wales went to the polls in local elections.
It would prove a disaster for the Tories who lost control of their only Welsh council - Monmouthshire - as Labour and Plaid Cymru made gains.
After more than two years, Wales had been the last part of the UK with Covid restrictions still in place - wearing masks in health settings - but we enjoyed "getting back to normal" as infection rates continued to decline.
Wrexham was named Wales' seventh city to mark the Queen's Platinum Jubilee, however, hopes of also becoming the UK's next city of culture were dashed.
More than 200,000 fans flocked to Cardiff as Ed Sheeran played a series of gigs at the Principality Stadium, which sparked more travel problems.
It was a month of celebrations, sunshine and sadness.
The Queen's jubilee gave us all an extra bank holiday and street parties while Swansea-singer Bonnie Tyler and footballer Gareth Bale were among those honoured.
But the celebrations were later blamed for a rise in Covid cases across across the UK.
Ex-Wales rugby captain Ryan Jones was also honoured but the 41-year-old revealed a month later he had been diagnosed with early onset dementia.
The Urdd Eisteddfod celebrated its centenary, the Commonwealth Games baton landed on our shores having travelled the world and we all paused to commemorate the 40th anniversary of the Falklands War.
A human won the annual Man versus Horse race in Llanwrtyd Wells, Powys, for only the third time in the event's 42-year history.
Meanwhile Wales' footballers ended an even longer wait, beating Ukraine 1-0 in Cardiff to qualify for the World Cup in Qatar.
Wales was hit by the biggest rail strike in 30 years in a dispute that would last beyond the rest of the year.
Stereophonics and Sir Tom Jones rocked the Principality Stadium over two nights in Cardiff.
However, there was sadness at the passing of another icon when former Wales captain Phil Bennett, died aged 73.
Actor Michael Sheen best summed up a nation's grief when he tweeted: "A part of Wales has died."
Archaeologists uncovered evidence of prehistoric life dating back 10,000 years to the Ice Age during a dig under Pembroke Castle.
Boris Johnson's leadership also became history when he was forced to resign by several cabinet ministers, including Welsh Secretary Simon Hart, following a spate of controversies.
Temperatures outside Westminster got even higher as Wales baked in the hottest days ever recorded - with the mercury hitting 37.1C in Hawarden, Flintshire.
However, the weather did mean a warm return for both the Royal Welsh Show and National Eisteddfod after a two-year hiatus during the pandemic.
There was also a return to form for our rugby players who clinched a first Welsh win in South Africa while Gareth Bale confirmed a move to the United States.
There was more sporting success at the Commonwealth Games in Birmingham where Wales ended with 28 medals, including eight golds.
But the month would also be dominated by the trial of ex-footballer and Wales manager Ryan Giggs.
There was no let up in the heatwave as drought in Pembrokeshire and parts of Carmarthenshire saw a first hosepipe ban in Wales for more than 30 years.
Top grades at A-level dipped from 2021 after pupils sat summer exams for the first time in three years and a novel inspired by the last man to be hanged in Cardiff 70 years ago was named the Wales Book of the Year.
Liz Truss was appointed prime minister, though she resigned after just 45 days in office.
Of more significance was the death of Queen Elizabeth II, the UK's longest-serving monarch, who died at Balmoral aged 96 after reigning for 70 years.
In his first address following the death of his mother, King Charles III named Prince William and his wife Catherine as the new Prince and Princess of Wales.
Tony Paris, one of the three men wrongly convicted of the 1988 murder of Cardiff woman Lynette White in a notorious miscarriage of justice, died.
Welsh rugby lost another former captain and a legendary broadcaster when Eddie Butler died during a charity trek in Peru, aged 65.
While more revelations over the condition of the plane that crashed, killing footballer Emiliano Sala and pilot David Ibbotson in 2019, emerged.
The month was one of very different discoveries, particularly along the west Wales coast.
Police found a large haul of drugs that washed up on a beach near Aberystwyth.
Further out to sea, a fisherman named Batey, was celebrating the biggest fish ever caught in Welsh waters - a giant 900lb (408kg) tuna.
There was another - more gruesome - discovery when the remains of more than 240 people were unearthed by archaeologists under a department store in Pembrokeshire.
The year's third prime minister, Rishi Sunak, appointed Monmouth MP David TC Davies as Welsh secretary while police in Gwent unveiled their latest quirky crime-busting tool - three Tuk Tuks.
Tempers flared during a north Wales football derby that saw seven red cards during a mass brawl and First Minister Mark Drakeford also lost his cool during a Senedd debate.
Motorists and businesses in north Wales could have been forgiven for feeling anger over the continued closure of the Menai Bridge.
A man and girl were injured on the rollercoaster at Oakwood Theme Park in Pembrokeshire, and indie rock band Adwaith became the fist act to win the Welsh Music Prize for a second time.
Gwent Police found itself being investigated after "abhorrent" messages between serving and retired officers emerged.
People across Wales took to the streets during the COP27 summit calling for "climate justice" and then on the UK's warmest Remembrance Sunday ever recorded - 21.2C (70.2F) in Porthmadog, Gwynedd.
A change in ownership of a Newport microchip factory was deemed a national security risk while a change in policy will see Wales' highest mountain referred to by its Welsh name Yr Wyddfa.
Racehorse owner Dai Walters and trainer Sam Thomas had lucky escapes from a helicopter crash near Ruthin.
November also saw football history made.
Despite the cost and concerns over Qatar's human rights record, fans still travelled to watch Robert Page's team play at the World Cup for the first time since 1958.
It ended in disappointment after the team failed to progress beyond the group stage, but that didn't stop us getting Yma o Hyd tattoos.
Even Hollywood actor - and Wrexham FC owner - Ryan Reynolds was speaking Welsh at awards ceremonies.
However, figures showed the number of people speaking Welsh has fallen in the past decade, particularly among children.
A quick freeze had us finally switching on the heating but also raised concerns in Wales' most deprived areas as the cost of living crisis continued to hit households and businesses.
The death of seven-year-old Hanna Roap from Strep A sparked a public health fears among parents, though nurses went on strike for the first time in NHS history - swiftly followed by paramedics.
Wales' largest health board became subject of a £122m fraud investigation and South Wales Fire and Rescue Service also underwent a review following allegations of misconduct.
Christmas cards were late due to a postal strike while holiday travel was hit by industrial action by both rail workers and airport staff.
There was better news for Wales' national symbol when leeks were given special protected status and the story of identical twins who spoke to no-one but each other became a film.
Wrexham FC's Hollywood owners were given the freedom of the city and would be two of the few people who could afford to buy a house on a street in Abersoch - named the most expensive in Wales.
Thousands of homes spent Christmas without water while hundreds of other people were braving the chill for the festive sea dips around Wales to round-off another eventful year.
What does 2023 hold in store?
The past year has seen public anger over pollution in rivers and waterways.
According to the environmental charity Earthwatch, people are increasingly taking pollution monitoring into their own hands.
John Pratt used to go fishing on the Evenlode which flows through the Cotswold Hills. Now he takes a chemistry set.
A local resident for 33 years, the river has become part of his life.
So when one summer the crystalline waters resembled soup, he was determined to take action.
Some might join a protest or post images of polluted rivers on social media, but John became a citizen scientist. He's one of many up and down the country hoping their data will help in the effort to clean up rivers.
During the year, thousands of people have taken part in protests over sewage spills in rivers and on beaches from Essex to Edinburgh. And at the same time, there's been a boom in citizen scientists turning their attention to the health of the nation's waterways.
The UK has seen a long tradition of the public getting involved in scientific research, including tracking the numbers of plants, birds and insects.
But as more people spend time out on the water paddle-boarding or wild swimming, there's growing interest in sounding the alarm on pollution, from plastic to chemicals.
Earthwatch, which trains citizen scientists, says the number of community groups carrying out monitoring for chemical pollutants has doubled in the past year alone. And on this stretch of the Evenlode, there are now more samples taken by citizen scientists than anyone else.
Earthwatch trains volunteers like John Pratt to test for nitrates and phosphates - chemicals found in fertiliser, sewage and farm slurry.
These are naturally present in small quantities but in excess can cause vast blooms of algae and kill fish and invertebrates.
The data John collects on the Evenlode helps scientists and regulators build up a better picture of how pollution levels change over time.
"I'm just one of many citizen scientists who are concerned with the health of the river," John explains, looking out over this area of outstanding natural beauty near Charlbury.
"We hope through dialogue and through action by the water utility it will be possible to restore the Evenlode to the health it had before the year 2000."
The Evenlode meanders to join the Thames through picture-perfect towns. The early 20th Century poet Hilaire Belloc wrote of the "lovely" Evenlode and how it bound his heart to English ground.
Yet today the river is plagued with pollution, causing weed growth, declining fish and insect numbers, and cloudiness for much of the year. It is not alone.
According to a report by Environmental Audit Committee MPs, England's rivers are "in a mess", contaminated by "a chemical cocktail" of sewage, agricultural waste and pollution.
Monitoring regimes were described as "outdated, underfunded and inadequate".
Dr Heather Moorhouse of Earthwatch says citizen scientists can't replace the work of regulators but they can put pressure on polluters to clean up their act.
"Citizen science is plugging an information gap and helping our understanding of water quality in our rivers," she says.
"But this data needs to be used to hold polluters to account and to invest in improvements to the way our rivers are managed."
The main problem for the Evenlode, like many rural rivers, is pollution from sewage and agricultural waste, says Dr Izzy Bishop, a lecturer in ecology at UCL in London.
And the "huge boom" in people collecting data through citizen science is helping to keep the problem of river pollution on the political agenda.
"The visibility and transparency of data that is being collected by the public is one of the big drivers for pushing this up the political agenda," she says.
As for John, he hopes that one day he'll be able to relive his childhood memories.
"We all share childhood memories in the summer time of taking our shoes and socks off and paddling in streams and rivers and being able to see our toes when we're waded up to our knees," he says.
"It is possible on some of our tributaries, it's possible on some of the burns up in Scotland, it's possible on some of the streams in Wales but in our poor river Evenlode that is no longer possible."
The identities of the dozens of victims who lost their lives to a deadly US winter storm are emerging as the snow begins to melt.
Over 60 people died, most of the them in New York's Erie County, home to the state's second largest city, Buffalo.
A Congolese refugee, a nursing assistant and a grandmother are among the dead.
Some were found in their cars or on the frigid pavement, and even in the relative safety of their homes.
Sophia Clay spent Christmas Eve worried and anxious about her brother, William Clay, 56, who had gone missing.
"If he comes to your door please help him," she wrote in a Facebook post that morning. "Please pray for his safety."
Willie Payne, Mr Clay's brother, told NPR it was a shock when he received a call from Sophia later that day. She told Mr Payne that their brother had been found face down in the snow, dead.
Mr Clay died on his birthday.
Abdul Sharifu, 26, left at midday on Christmas Eve to get shopping for his pregnant wife, family members told local media. He never returned.
Hours after he departed, he was found dead on a pavement.
Mr Sharifu, a refugee from Democratic Republic of the Congo, was in the middle of rebuilding his life in Buffalo, having fled his war-torn homeland.
Ali Sharifu, his cousin, told Buffalo News that Mr Sharifu "was so excited to become a father" and was working towards buying a home for his growing family.
Monique Alexander, 52, left home on Christmas Eve, but never made it back, her daughter Casey Maccarone told ABC News.
"She never said where she was going, just that she would be right back," Ms Maccarone said.
Hours went by without Ms Maccarone hearing from her mother. She posted a message to a Buffalo blizzard group on Facebook asking if anyone had seen her.
Later she received a phone call from a man who told her he had found her mother's body buried in the snow.
Ms Maccarone said her mother's death meant losing the "rock of the family".
Anndel Taylor, 22, died after being trapped in her car on the Friday before Christmas Eve.
Ms Taylor was a certified nursing assistant who had moved to Buffalo from Charlotte, North Carolina, to be with her elderly father.
Driving home from work, she was just minutes away from her destination when she became stranded, relatives told US media.
Ms Taylor had been sending videos of the blizzard to family members from inside her car. But eventually, the communication stopped.
Her body was found the next day.
Her mother, Brown Steele, told reporters: "I want to get to the bottom of why the city was unable to help."
Timothy Murphy, 27, was found by his cousin on Christmas Day, a family member told the New York Times.
The cousin, Steven, chose to visit the house in Lockport, Niagara County, because Mr Murphy wasn't answering phone calls. Neither was Steven's mother, who also lives at the address.
He called 911 after finding Timothy "cold" and unresponsive and his mother unconscious.
Mr Murphy was killed when carbon monoxide accumulated in the house after his external furnace was blocked by snow, officials say.
Carolyn Eubanks, 63, had a heart condition and depended on an oxygen machine, her family told Buffalo News.
Her son and his stepbrother travelled to her house to try to rescue her, but a journey that usually takes 10 minutes by car instead took seven hours due to road closures and stuck vehicles. They were eventually able to park two blocks away from Ms Eubanks' home.
As her son, Antwaine Parker, tried to walk her to his car, she collapsed in the snow. Mr Parker banged on a neighbour's door for help.
The strangers rushed out to help Ms Eubanks inside, but she quickly succumbed.
Her body lay in the house for 24 hours before she was taken to a hospital.
The couple "allowed my mother to rest in peace on their living room floor", Mr Parker said.
Stanisława Jóźwiak, 73, was an immigrant from Poland who died after her car slid off the road while she was driving to a market in Buffalo, her daughter told the Washington Post.
Her body was found inside her car on Christmas Day.
Her daughter, Edie Syta, told the Post that it's possible her mother did not understand the severity of the storm warnings because she was not fluent in English.
"So many families are going to be broken," she tearfully told the newspaper. "And they're never going to look at Christmas the same."
One of the last urban farms in Scotland is set to close over rising costs and lack of funding, just three years after it was saved from collapse.
Love Gorgie Farm in Edinburgh, which gives volunteering opportunities to disadvantaged young people and adults, will close its doors on 7 February.
The charity, Love Learning, took over the farm after it went into liquidation in 2019.
Love Learning said it had "tried everything" to avoid this situation.
The charity's CEO, Lynn Bell, told BBC Scotland: "When we took over the farm we were told by the administrators that City of Edinburgh Council gives £100,000 a year and had been doing so in the farm's 40 year history.
"But when we took it over we kept asking the council when it was going to open its grant so we could apply but it never did.
"Also, just weeks after we officially opened the Covid lockdown began and now the cost of living crisis has hit, and we just can't do it alone."
Love Learning said Energy bills for the three-acre farm rose from £17,000 for 18 months to £27,000 for just eight months.
The farm has about 50 livestock and 50 pets, including sheep, pigs, ducks, geese and chickens and a number of smaller animals including snakes and lizards.
There are 30 staff at the farm and many more volunteers. There are also allotments on the site.
Edinburgh council said it had faced "difficult decisions" over its budget in 2023 and said it discussed "new operating models" with Love Gorgie Farm.
Council Leader, Cammy Day, said: "Sadly, they're not alone in feeling the devastating effects of the pandemic, with many organisations struggling to cope with falling visitor numbers and rising costs.
"As a council, we stepped in to support the venue three years ago - giving it a new lease of life and allowing Love Learning to take over - and have offered to work with them again."
Mr Day said Edinburgh was one the lowest-funded local authorities in Scotland.
He added: "As a result, our city and the essential services we provide remain under immense pressure.
"This is exacerbated in our 2023/24 budgets that are looking at at least £70m of cuts from the Scottish government leaving us to face some extremely difficult decisions as we look to set budgets for the coming year."
Lynne Bell said Love Learning was now propping up Gorgie Farm with £20,000 a month.
"I hope a developer doesn't build houses on it but we had absolutely no choice and cannot renew the lease," she said.
"We have been appealing to the council for two years and we also did a feasibility study seven months ago and sent it to them but they didn't respond.
"We've tried everything. I want to publicly apologise for not being able to make it work and to say I am sorry.
"I feel like failure and there have been a lot of tears."
The farm previously went into liquidation in November 2019.
Crowdfunding brought in £100,000 and Love Learning reopened it in 2020.
All the animals will now be rehomed in sanctuaries or on other farms.
Ms Bell said: "The support for Gorgie Farm from the public has been tremendous, and I would like to thank every single person who has supported the Farm over the last few years.
"Gorgie Farm is unique, and it has the potential to deliver so much for so many."
The number of summer wildfires which Shropshire firefighters had to tackle nearly trebled in 2022.
The county's fire service responded to 138 calls in June, July and August, compared to 50 in 2021 and 40 in 2020.
It took 53 of those calls in July 2022, when the UK was experiencing record temperatures, but the peak came in August when it responded to 65 wildfire calls.
Other counties also recorded big increases in the number of calls.
Herefordshire and Worcestershire saw wildfire related calls treble and Warwickshire firefighters responded to six times the number of calls in 2022, compared to the previous year.
The information was supplied to the Press Association in response to a Freedom of Information request to England's 44 fire services.
It asked for the number of call outs to wildfires in the summers of 2020, 2021 and 2022.
Fire services across the whole of England dealt with nearly 25,000 wildfires in the summer of 2022, almost four times that recorded over the same period in 2021.
Met Éireann has said that 2022 looks set to be the warmest year on record for Ireland.
The Irish weather service data shows that 2022 will also be the 12th consecutive year of above normal temperatures in the country.
The organisation said that 21 years in this century have all been above normal temperatures.
Maximum temperature records were broken in both July and August.
Temperatures hit 33C on 18 July at Phoenix Park in Dublin while 32.1C was recorded at Durrow in County Laois on 13 August.
Nine other weather stations also broke their individual highest temperature records at the same time in July.
Overnight camping in motorhomes and campervans at a nature reserve in the north of the island has been banned.
It follows damage to dune grassland turf and anti-social behaviour at the Ayres National Nature Reserve.
The government said several vans had become stuck in the area despite length restrictions being in place.
Environment Minister Clare Barber said the move was "regrettable but necessary to preserve the integrity of the area and its unique characteristics".
Late night incidents involving camp fires and vehicles being driven at high speed have also been cited as reasons for the ban.
The reserve, which is owned by the Department of the Environment, Food and Agriculture and Manx National Heritage, forms part of a wider Area of Special Scientific Interest (ASSI) established in 1996.
Overnight camping at the site was previously allowed under a permit system.
Three not-so-little pigs have been saved from an uncertain future after being on the loose in a seaside town.
The fugitive swine had been foraging around Silloth in Cumbria, occasionally "confronting" unwary residents.
They had escaped from an enclosure on farmland and their owner has now agreed to give them to Pennines Wildlife Rescue in Carrshield, Northumberland.
Anthony Johnson, who runs the centre, said he "didn't want to see the animals go to slaughter".
Their escape and subsequent sightings around the town became something of a cause célèbre.
Residents said they were both worried for their wellbeing and unnerved by the prospect of coming across them in the dark.
"A pig, when it comes running towards you, is pretty scary," Mr Johnson said.
"It weren't right that they were wandering round the village."
The pigs' owner, Sam Hagan, had been keeping them on a field near Solway Holiday Park, which he recently sold.
Mr Johnson said Cumbria County Council had brokered an agreement with Mr Hagan to give the peripatetic porkers a new home.
Mr Hagan has been approached for comment.
It is understood he does not want payment, but Mr Johnson said taking them in would "cost me enough money as it is".
They would need new shelters, food, hay and straw, and would have to be kept in quarantine away from his other animals until they could be checked by a vet, he said.
He is also taking in two mules and two alpacas that had been living on Mr Hagan's land.
"It's going to be a big undertaking," Mr Johnson said.
He was hoping for donations and said it was "going to be a struggle" until they came through.
Silloth resident Adam Pearson said it was "a relief" to hear the pigs were going to be safe.
"No animal should be unnecessarily slaughtered," he said.
Diane Clorley, who also lives in the town, thought it "might not have been such a happy ending" had they not escaped.
"The fact that most of the town were concerned shows that there's still some compassion left in the world," she said.
A utility company has warned customers to avoid a "post-Christmas and New Year's catastrophe", by preventing a build up of fatbergs in its network.
Southern Water said it was the time of year when "gruesome" and "nasty" blockages can clog up the sewers.
Fatbergs are usually caused by a build up in pipes of hardened fat, oil and wet wipes.
The company said recent years had also seen Christmas lights, footballs, t-shirts and cutlery cause problems.
Alex Saunders, head of the company's wastewater network, said: "No-one likes a nasty surprise over the festive season and our sewers are no different.
"This is the time of year where we do see an increase in blockages, and so many of these can be easily avoided.
"A blocked sewer can cause flooding to homes and businesses and unclogging them can take a lot of time, effort and disruption for local communities."
There have been about 95,000 sewer blockages across Hampshire, the Isle of Wight, Kent and Sussex in the last five years, Southern Water said.
It estimates for every one million turkeys cooked, about 250 tonnes of fat and oil finds its way into its network.
As the year turns, and the economy turns downwards, the revolution in energy picks up pace.
This time last year, oil and gas prices were rising on the back of economic recovery and rising tensions on Russia's border with Ukraine.
The subsequent invasion, in February, turned energy markets upside down. The surge in fossil fuel prices, with subsequent declines but far greater volatility, changed the financial calculations on alternative sources of energy.
One of the biggest accelerations we've seen has been towards hydrogen energy. What seemed some way over the horizon just a year ago is now getting much closer.
Whether blue hydrogen, derived from gas, or the green variety, from using renewable power to split hydrogen from oxygen in water, it could be a big part of the energy mix in the north-east of Scotland. Where wind generation is far from conventional markets, on the Hebridean and northern islands for instance, hydrogen can be shipped out, to markets around the world.
The market for receiving hydrogen and using it in heavy transport and in industry is being fast prepared on continental Europe. The Scottish government talks up the prospects of exporting to Germany, which fits with the political agenda of integrating into European energy markets.
Meantime, on the Moray Firth horizon, I'm watching shipping busy with supply of equipment to the massive windfarms being constructed off the east coast. Far bigger ones were included in plans that won competitive bidding for ScotWind - the next and much bigger wave of offshore wind.
Paying Crown Estate Scotland, and therefore its shareholder the Scottish government, £755m upfront for the right to develop designated sea areas was only the start. That kind of money shows developers are serious.
With a requirement that they install within a decade, they are busy planning. Next comes assessment of impact and securing of finance.
There will be a chance to see all the planets in the solar system in the night sky on Thursday.
Five should be visible with the naked eye, while the two furthest away, Uranus and Neptune, will be better viewed with binoculars.
It will be challenging to see Mercury and Venus in the UK due to their low position in the sky.
The best time to see the spectacle is shortly after sunset.
Those further south, including southern Europe or closer to the equator, are more likely to be able to see all the planets appear in a vertical line up into the sky.
Mercury will also be more visible further south.
Unlike stars, planets do not twinkle. Saturn and Jupiter will be brightest, and Mars will be a salmon red colour.
"Mars at the moment is at its best from the UK now until about 2032. It's going to be quite a long time before we see this one again, so it's well worth taking a look now," Dr Robert Massey of the Royal Astronomical Society told BBC News.
Dr Massey advises sky-watchers to try to find a clear vantage point to look towards the south-west horizon shortly after sunset.
Venus should appear the brightest, low in the south-west towards the horizon, but it will be a challenge from the UK.
Jupiter is the next brightest planet, and should appear higher in the sky where Saturn should also be visible.
Anyone looking through a telescope should be able to see details like the moons of Jupiter and perhaps cloud systems or dark markings on Jupiter and Mars, Dr Massey says.
Skies are forecast to be clearest in the south-west of England and the south and west of Wales. But in the north of England and Scotland clouds could obscure the view.
In June Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn were visible when they aligned in a rare planetary conjunction.
More people are adopting a "make-do-and-mend" mindset, upcycling experts have said.
Upcycling is transforming unwanted products you cannot use anymore into new things you can use.
Repair Café Wales believes the cost of living crisis has made people make the most of what they already have, or upcycle and recycle pre-owned items.
Throwaway culture has been the norm since World War Two - but that tide seems to be turning, at least in the short term, as people avoid unnecessary purchases.
One upcycler said they refitted a friend's kitchen using materials costing about £300.
Repair Café Wales is a not-for-profit organisation that supports communities to run events fixing household items for free.
Director Phoebe Brown said: "People can learn to fix them for themselves, and also be taught how to look after their items better.
"We have all lost touch with how to care for our items."
More than 80 groups have been set up across Wales.
Thanks to a spike in interest during and since the Covid pandemic, organisers hope to hit the 100 mark by the end of 2023.
One primary school teacher from west Wales turned her passion for giving old items new life into a side hustle.
Eleri Jones, from Ffostrasol, Ceredigion, now shares content with over 8,000 Instagram followers.
It all started in early 2018 when she bought her first house.
The 30-year-old said: "Instead of buying all matching furniture I just bought higgledy-piggledy bits and painted them to match."
When Covid lockdowns hit, Eleri - who says she has always been creative - found herself with time to expand her projects and it "just blew up".
She said: "One of my best friends has just bought a house at one of the worst times.
"Instead of spending £10,000 on a brand new kitchen she has spent £300 on materials and I have done it."
Eleri has grown an online community of keen upcyclers, ready to learn from her expertise.
"I have definitely noticed, in the past few months, more messages coming through of people wanting to do things themselves," she said.
"The way things are going now, people are trying to be a little bit greener and not waste things."
Her advice to anyone looking to upcycle is: "You have got nothing to lose.
"Start small. Don't start by painting your wardrobe - maybe do your bedside table first.
"Confidence will grow and with that will come better technique. If I can do it, anyone can."
NuLife Furniture, a community upcycling project in Cardiff, has been "inundated" with requests for cost-cutting items.
The project started in 2014 as part of Cadwyn Housing Association, and aims to source affordable furniture for residents.
It also has a shop of upcycled goods in Cardiff Bay, which is open to the public.
Project manager Alessa Hill said: "If we had 100 air fryers and slow cookers, they would go. We can't replenish quickly enough, so there is a real change in the types of items [requested].
"People have got less money so they are not going to buy something on a three-year credit, and will instead come and see what we already have.
"We are always busy. No-one seems to go out of here empty handed."
With costs soaring, the team is keen to increase its workshop sessions so people can learn new skills.
Workshops so far have included upcycling chairs and lampshades.
Alessa said: "If we run a workshop and someone has got an interest and they go away with an end product, that is massive for their confidence."
Wales is currently ranked third in the world for recycling, and the Welsh government plans to reach zero-waste by 2050.
Alessa added: "It's like at the end of the month when you are waiting to get paid and so you're looking at the back of your kitchen cupboards and getting more creative.
"People are becoming more resourceful.
"We are seeing a lot more of the traditional skills coming back and so there are real positives to be had."
Work will start in the new year to clear areas of Shropshire as part of a scheme to restore 57 hectares (141 acres) of land across two counties.
The aim is to help struggling pollinators, bees and butterflies, by creating wildflower-rich routes to link together existing wildlife areas.
Conservation charity Buglife wants to restore habitats across The Marches to boost key species.
Some trees and gorse will be cut back to create more breathing spaces.
The "Get the Marches Buzzing" scheme, which is set to take two years, will eventually see the restoration of 13 hectares (32 acres) in north Herefordshire and 44 hectares (109 acres) in Shropshire.
The areas worked on will be lowland heath and species-rich grassland and should help the Dingy Skipper butterfly and the Bilberry Bumblebee, Buglife said.
The changes will be quite drastic, Buglife's Kate Jones said, with gorse and some trees removed and new patches of heather and flowers seeded along with some ground left bare.
"Because we've got so few green spaces left, if we all left them, they would become quite dark places with not much flowering species present and not much diversity of habitat," she said.
"We will be cutting down trees and that can ring alarm bells but it's almost a little bit of a reset to make sure that these sites offer as much as they can."
By the end of the two years, Ms Jones said the areas should look very different.
The project, which has been funded by Severn Trent Water and The National Lottery Heritage Fund, is part of Buglife's B-Lines project.
Thousands of travellers are stranded at US airports as flight cancellations and delays continue to wreak havoc following a deadly winter storm.
By Wednesday afternoon, over 2,800 flights had been cancelled and and nearly 3,200 delayed.
Most of the cancellations were from hard-hit Southwest Airlines, which called off over 2,500 flights.
The chaos has left thousands of exasperated passengers sleeping in terminals as they search for solutions.
More than 2,300 flights scheduled to leave on Thursday have already been cancelled, according to flight tracking service FlightAware.
Southwest CEO Bob Jordan said in a video apology late on Tuesday that the company was "truly sorry" to everyone who was unable to get where they needed to go because of the cancellations.
Mr Jordan said the airline - which says it is the largest carrier in the US - cancelled the flights in order to catch up after "record bitter cold brought challenges for all airlines".
"We have some real work to do in making this right," he said. "I want you to know that we're committed to that."
The airline has blamed the cancellations on the bad weather across the US and its aftermath, as well as challenges in getting crews access to updated schedules.
Unions and analysts have pointed at a host of factors causing the problems, including staffing shortfalls and outdated computer systems that did not connect crews with flights when cancellations started to pile up.
Southwest's CEO said Tuesday that he had reached out to US Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg to discuss the matter.
The US Department of Transportation (DOT) said it was concerned by Southwest's "unacceptable rate of cancellations and delays", and Mr Buttigieg pledged on Tuesday to hold the airline accountable.
He told several news outlets that he had asked Southwest to automatically issue vouchers for hotel stays and other costs to passengers whose flights were cancelled.
Mr Jordan told Mr Buttigieg that the airline would do so, and the agency will be "watching to make sure that they follow through", Mr Buttigieg told CNN.
In a tweet on Tuesday, US President Joe Biden said that his administration is "working to ensure airlines are held accountable" for disruptions. He urged that passengers check to see whether they are entitled to compensation.
Senator Maria Cantwell, the chair of the US Senate Commerce Committee, said that the committee will "be looking into the causes of these disruptions and its impact to consumers."
On its website, Southwest said that it will honour "reasonable requests" for reimbursement for meals, hotel and alternate transportation for those who have had flights cancelled or delayed between 24 December and 2 January.
With flight cancellations and delays continuing, thousands of passengers have been left at airports across the country as they attempt to re-book flights or make alternative travel arrangements. Passengers in locations including Denver, Chicago and Washington DC reported hours-long queues to speak to customer service representatives.
One Southwest passenger, Talia Jones, told BBC US partner CBS that she was "beyond frustrated and hurt" after travel disruptions meant she was unable to see her father for the holidays.
"It's very disappointing," Ms Jones said.
At Chicago's Midway Airport - where Southwest is the primary airline - hundreds of bags were waiting to be claimed. Social media images from angry passengers showed masses of bags lined up or in piles near baggage carousels.
"It's been hell," Denzil Smothers, whose flight was cancelled, told CBS.
According to the DOT's website, most airlines will rebook passengers on the next flight to a passenger's destination, provided that space is available. Passengers who wish to cancel their trip entirely are entitled to a full refund, even in cases in which they purchased non-refundable tickets.
A number of major North American airlines - including Southwest, American and Delta - have waived change fees for passengers who rebook during the storm.
A powerful winter storm that slammed North America has claimed more lives in the US state of New York, local officials say.
At least 34 people have died in Erie County, which includes the city of Buffalo, county executive Mark Poloncarz said on Wednesday.
Authorities are still trying to identify three of the victims.
The storm that swept across the US over the holiday weekend has killed at least 60 people in eight states.
There have now been more fatalities in Erie County in the last few days than during the infamous Buffalo blizzard of 1977. Twenty-nine people died in that storm, according to the National Weather Service.
"It's a horrible storm with too many deaths," Mr Poloncarz said during a press conference on Wednesday morning.
But conditions in some of the hardest-hit regions in the US - including New York - are starting to improve.
In Erie County, fewer than 1,000 households are now without power, and 95% of residents should have power restored by the end of the day, Mr Poloncarz said.
The city of Buffalo - which got more than four feet (1.2m) of snow - has made progress clearing roads, county officials said. At least 65% of city streets have at least one lane available for passage, though a driving ban remains in effect due to dangerous conditions, Mr Poloncarz said.
The local Buffalo Niagara International Airport reopened at 11:00 local time (16:00 GMT) after closing last Friday, though nearly all scheduled departing flights for the day were cancelled or delayed, according to the airport's website.
Buffalo's rail service is running again on a limited schedule.
The US National Guard is going door-to-door in neighbourhoods in the county that lost power to conduct wellness checks as officials are "fearful" that some living alone may have perished during the storm, Mr Poloncarz said.
With temperatures rising and snow beginning to melt, the county is now preparing for the possibility of flooding, the county executive said.
Elsewhere in the US and Canada, residents are still dealing with the effects of the deadly winter storm as well as new dangerous weather systems, which have caused several fatalities.
States in the western US and the Rocky Mountains region have experienced heavy winds and rain as a result of an "atmospheric river", a long narrow channel of moisture in the atmosphere that can cause heavy precipitation.
A surge of heavy rain or mountain snow is expected on the west and the US south on Thursday and could continue through the end of the week, according to the Weather Prediction Center.
The system on Tuesday began flooding the western states of Washington and Oregon, where five people died in car crashes as a result of felled trees from the storm, Oregon State Police told local media outlets.
In one instance, Oregon State Police said the severe weather caused a large tree to fall onto the roof of a car on Highway 26 in Clatsop County on Tuesday, killing the 19-year-old driver Justin Nolasco Pedraza and two passengers - a four-year-old child and 41-year-old Bonifacio Olvera Nolasco. First responders found all three dead at the scene.
More than 70,000 customers were without power in Washington and Oregon as of Wednesday afternoon, according to outage tracker PowerOutage.us.
The storm is expected to "linger into the upcoming weekend", the Weather Prediction Center said.
Some areas could get up to six inches (15 cm) of rainfall.
The Washington state capital of Olympia saw a record high tide of 18.4 feet (5.6 metres), which brought marine life into the city's streets, according to officials.
A local journalist shared videos on Twitter of jellyfish in flooded city streets and of a local resident who was trying to rescue the animals.
Heavy snow is also forecast for the mountainous regions of Sierra Nevada, Cascades and the Rockies as moist air flows eastward, the Weather Prediction Center said.
Some Canadian residents, meanwhile, are still battling power cuts as a result of the storm, including about 19,000 customers in the province of Quebec, public utility provider Hydro-Québec said on Wednesday.
In Ontario, more than 10,000 customers were still without power, according to power supplier Hydro One.
A flood warning and a series of alerts have been issued as heavy rain sweeps into Wales.
Areas, including Swansea and Carmarthenshire, could experience high levels of surface water, while in north Wales, the A499 near Pwllheli in Gwynedd was closed earlier.
It comes after the Met Office issued a yellow weather warning advising that Wales could face floods on Wednesday.
It said heavy rain is expected until 15:00 GMT it could cause disruption.
A number of areas in Wales are set to be affected, the weather forecasters said.
Natural Resources Wales listed more than a dozen amber "be prepared" alerts over Tuesday evening and into Wednesday morning (28 December).
A flood warning was also issued at about 15:30 for the River Towy, isolated properties between Llandeilo and Abergwili in Carmarthenshire, with river levels expected to rise until 17:00.
Flooding between Pwllheli and Penrhos on the Llyn Peninsula forced the A499 in Gwynedd to be closed for part of Wednesday morning, but has now reopened. An earlier flood warning for the area has also been lifted.
Some flooding of businesses and homes was likely, the Met Office warned, and buses and trains are likely to be delayed and there could be power cuts.
Spray and flooding on roads could also make journey times longer.
The M48 Severn Bridge remains closed in both directions between J1 and J2 due to high winds.
Parts of south-west England could also be hit by the poor weather.
A Met Office spokesman said: "A band of rain will move north-eastwards across the area during Wednesday."
Rain would become "heavy and persistent" especially over high ground in south Wales and Dartmoor.
A few places could get 40 to 60mm (1.5 to 2.3in) of rain in nine to 12 hours, before clearing in the afternoon.
The National Trust has warned that extreme weather seen in the UK in 2022 has set a benchmark for what a typical year could be like from now on.
The charity said high temperatures, drought and back-to-back storms have created major challenges for nature.
In its annual review, it described such conditions as the "new normal".
It said this year was a "stark illustration" of the difficulties many UK species could face without more action to tackle climate change.
The hot summer and months of low rainfall dried up rivers, fragile chalk streams and ponds, damaged crops and natural habitats, and fuelled wildfires that destroyed landscapes, the charity said.
Wildfires on National Trust land scorched areas such as Zennor Head, Cornwall, Bolberry Down in south Devon, Baggy Point in north Devon and Studland in Dorset, destroying homes of species including rare sand lizards.
In a separate report, the Met Office said 2022 is set to be the warmest year on record for the UK.
The weather forecaster said its provisional figures suggest all four seasons range in the top 10 since records began in 1884, with the 10 warmest years taking place from 2003 onwards.
The dry conditions affected natterjack toads, whose shallow ponds for breeding dried up, and bats that had to be rescued in the heatwave.
Trees planted last winter to store carbon and boost woodland habitat were hit by the drought and extreme heat, with 50% of saplings lost on estates such as Wimpole in Cambridgeshire and Buscot and Coleshill in Oxfordshire.
In contrast, the calm, dry spring weather resulted in a few success stories, especially for this year's apple harvest due to the lack of late frosts and blossom lasting on the trees for longer.
Many parts of the UK have seen an abundance of seeds and nuts such as acorns, beech masts, rowan berries and elderberries including the east of England, North and Northern Ireland.
This phenomenon, known as a mast year, usually happens every four to five years but this year's has been unusual, with trees fruiting earlier than normal.
The National Trust's climate change adviser, Keith Jones, said there was "no escaping" how challenging this year's weather had been for nature.
"Drought, high temperatures, back-to-back storms, unseasonal heat, the recent cold snap and floods means nature, like us, is having to cope with a new litany of weather extremes," he said.
He added weather experts were predicting the future would see more torrential downpours, along with very dry and hot summers.
Alongside the weather extremes this year, wild birds were also hit by avian flu, with thousands of seabirds dying in colonies on the Farne Islands off the coast of Northumberland, where they had returned to breed.
The National Trust said conservation work to improve habitats was helping make the environment and species more resilient to the changes brought by rising temperatures.
A herd of wild bison that were reintroduced to the UK in the summer have been moved to a larger reserve.
The Kent Wildlife Trust and Wildwood Trust released the three female bison to naturally manage West Blean Woods near Canterbury, Kent, in July.
They are now roaming a 50 hectare (123 acre) reserve, having previously lived in a 5 hectare (12 acre) area.
Bison ranger Donovan Wright said releasing the animals into their new home "was an incredible moment."
He said: "The matriarch led the younger females into their new home, making a beeline for the sweet chestnut trees and tucking in right away."
There are now five members of the herd, after one of them unexpectedly gave birth to a calf in October. and a bull bison from Germany was introduced on 23 December.
The bison, once indigenous to the UK, were introduced to Blean woods in July, after two years of preparation.
They are now almost completely self-sufficient, and have to find their own food, water and shelter.
The bison clear undergrowth, de-bark non-native conifers and allow native species to flourish.
The also create pathways through undergrowth used by other animals such as foxes, rabbits and slow worms.
As a result of moving to a larger enclosure, the bison are able to be spotted more frequently by members of the public.
Mr Wright said: "It was not long after the bison had begun to explore their new home, that I had a chance meeting with some walkers visiting Blean.
"They were so excited to catch a glimpse of these incredible creatures from the footpath and it is great to see how inspired people are by this project."
People walking their dogs in West Blean Woods are being asked to keep them on leads, with two fences separating the bison from the public at all times.
Felix Pangibitan runs his hands through what is left of his precious rice crop.
The stalks in nearly two-thirds of the field are bent double; most are flattened, others have been snapped at the neck by strong typhoon winds which reached more than 150mph (241km/h).
"It looks so pitiful," he says in a video which has now gone viral across the Philippines.
"It's a waste. It's so hard to be a farmer."
It's a loss both Felix and the country can ill afford - especially this year, as food costs have soared to alarming levels.
His farm in Nueva Ecija on the main island of Luzon was one of thousands in the path of a powerful storm which hit the country's so-called "Rice Bowl". More than $22m (£18.2m) worth of crops were destroyed in 24 hours.
"I can't remember all the typhoons and their names but this has been the most heartbreaking one yet," he told us.
His simple heartfelt videos struck a chord across the Philippines, especially among the poorest communities which have been hit by multiple crises.
As in much of the world, the price of food, fuel and fertiliser have all increased here since Russia launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February.
But the Philippines is particularly vulnerable. It has to import food - including rice and all cereals such as wheat - to feed its growing population, making it one of the most food-insecure countries in Asia.
And as Felix can testify, even the food the Philippines does grow is far from guaranteed in a country which is the most disaster-prone in the world.
Typhoons batter the islands with growing frequency and severity. There have been a total of 16 severe storms this year which have destroyed or partially damaged more than $225m (£186m) worth of agricultural land, according to the latest figures from the Department of Agriculture.
This country may need more farmers to feed them, but farmers are already struggling to feed themselves. More than two million people who rely on farming are living below the poverty line.
"Our situation right now is the hardest so far," said Felix, who's been farming for 30 years.
"The price of goods has increased, along with fertilisers and fuel. Meanwhile, the price of our crops has stayed the same for decades. It means what we harvest is worthless."
Philippines President Ferdinand "Bongbong" Marcos Jr has appointed himself as minister for agriculture and promised to get the country growing again. But even he has admitted that inflation is running "rampant and out of control" mostly due to rising food costs.
Last month's 8% inflation rate is the highest recorded since November 2008, when it soared to 9.1% - and it's hitting ordinary Filipino families hard.
The death toll in the New York city of Buffalo has risen to 28, with thousands still without power amid a monster winter storm that has battered North America.
Across the US, at least 62 people have died in weather-related incidents.
In Buffalo, a state official said that military police are being brought in to help manage traffic in the city, where a driving ban remains in place.
Looting has been reported in parts of the city during the emergency.
The winter storm has also forced the cancellation of thousands of flights, including about 4,800 on Tuesday morning alone. Thousands of passengers have been left stranded at airports across the country.
Conditions are now expected to improve, with very little snowfall on Tuesday and slightly warmer weather on the way.
At a news conference on Tuesday, officials in New York's Erie County - which includes Buffalo - said that the death toll is expected to rise as search and rescue operations continue. The 28 confirmed dead were all in Buffalo.
"All of the numbers have not caught up at this time," Buffalo Mayor Byron Brown said. "We know that the [Erie] county number is larger."
More than 4,000 people in the area remain without power after the storm, which Mr Brown said was "probably" the worst of most residents' lifetimes. At the peak of the storm, about 20,000 people were without power.
Mr Brown added that there had been an "improvement" in the city, with very little snowfall and an absence of whiteout conditions allowing officials "significant progress" as they clear vehicles and restore power.
Officials warned that the warming temperatures in the region might lead to additional problems, including flooding as snow thaws.
In Erie County, city authorities on Tuesday were removing ice and blockages from storm drains ahead of what officials referred to as a "rapid melt".
Mark Poloncarz, executive of Erie County where Buffalo is located, said that 100 military police officers and additional state police were being brought in to help control traffic in the area, where conditions remained "ugly" on many local roads.
Buffalo Police Commissioner Joseph Gragmalia said that looting is "still going on". Four people have so far been arrested.
"This isn't people stealing food and medicine and diapers," he said. "They're destroying stores. They're stealing televisions, couches, whatever else they can get their hands on. They're opportunists."
On Monday, US President Joe Biden approved an emergency declaration allowing federal support for New York State. "My heart is with those who lost loved ones this holiday weekend," he tweeted.
Neighbouring state New Jersey also sent emergency services to New York state to provide further assistance.
State Governor Kathy Hochul, a native of Buffalo, described the storm as "the blizzard of the century".
"It is [like] going to a war zone, and the vehicles along the sides of the roads are shocking."
Officials in New York have said that emergency personnel were forced to go from car to car searching for survivors of the storm, sometimes finding bodies in cars and snow banks.
Some local residents recounted harrowing escapes from the storm over the last several days.
One local family with young children - aged two to six - had to wait for 11 hours before being rescued in the early hours of Christmas Day (Sunday).
"I was basically just hopeless," the father, Zila Santiago, told CBS News. He said he managed to stay warm by keeping the engine running, and kept distress at bay by playing games with the children.
Ditjak Ilunga from Gaithersburg, Maryland, told CBS News he was on his way to visit relatives in Hamilton, Ontario, with his daughters when their SUV was trapped in Buffalo.
After spending hours with the engine running he made the desperate choice to risk the howling storm to reach a nearby shelter.
He carried six-year-old Destiny on his back while 16-year-old Cindy clutched their Pomeranian puppy, and followed his footprints in the snow drifts.
"If I stay in this car I'm going to die here with my kids," Mr Ilunga recalled thinking.
He said he cried when the family walked through the shelter doors. "It's something I will never forget in my life," he said.
While the largest death toll has been reported in New York, storm-related deaths have been reported across the US, including Vermont, Ohio, Missouri, Wisconsin, Kansas, and Colorado.
Over the weekend, an estimated 250,000 homes and businesses experienced blackouts, although power has steadily been restored. Still, tens of thousands of people remained without power on Tuesday.
In Canada, the central province of Ontario and Quebec, in the north-east, bore the brunt of the storm.
Ontario's Prince Edward County, along Lake Ontario, declared a state of emergency and had to take snow ploughs off the streets because they were in danger of getting stuck, Mayor Steve Ferguson told CBC News.
Four fatalities earlier occurred when a bus rolled over on an icy road near the town of Merritt, in the western province of British Columbia.
A group of farmers have taken part in their third annual tractor run to raise money for charity.
The farmers said they wanted to "spread a little festive cheer" to North Somerset while raising money for Weston Hospicecare.
Farmers George Atwell and George Knowles started the tractor run in 2020.
In 2021, more than 150 tractors joined the drive and they raised £15,000 for the British Heart Foundation.
Mr Atwell said in 2020 he was struggling with depression and the community helped him get back on his feet.
"Never did I think I would be the one to struggle," Mr Atwell said. "We never know who we might need.
"We are all in it together... we want to put a smile on people's faces," he said.
This year, union jack flags were draped on the tractors in memory of the Queen who died in September.
The tractors left Yatton at 11:30 GMT and visited Kingston Seymour, Clevedon, Portishead, Portbury, Failand and Long Ashton.
A conservation charity that helped established some of Nottinghamshire's most popular nature reserves is celebrating its 60th anniversary.
The Nottinghamshire Wildlife Trust has been campaigning to protect the county's green spaces and habitats since 1962.
The trust has reflected on numerous successful campaigns over the decades.
It has also promised it will continue to "fight wildlife's corner" in the years to come.
Erin McDaid, the trust's head of communications, said the charity was particularly proud of its role establishing the Attenborough Nature Reserve, near Beeston, in 1966.
Attenborough now draws in some 500,000 visitors annually while being a habitat for more than 160 species of birds.
He said he was also delighted the Idle Valley Nature Reserve, near Retford, had now become an thriving and well-established natural habitat, where beavers had been successfully reintroduced.
Mr McDaid said: "For 60 years we have stood up for Nottinghamshire's wildlife by fighting damaging planning proposals, challenging poor policies and demanding better protection for wildlife and the environment.
"We've had some tremendous success recently, especially where we've stood shoulder-to-shoulder with local campaigners.
"We are determined to channel our concerns into continuing to fight wildlife's corner."
Politicians may be accused of being robotic on occasions - but the real robots are creeping into Parliament.
In recent years, robots have given evidence to select committees and one MP has even used a chatbot to write one of his speeches in the House of Commons.
So just to have a bit of festive fun - or perhaps give a terrifying glimpse into our future under artificial intelligence overlords - we asked the chatbot ChatGPT to have a go at taking Prime Minister's Questions.
ChatGPT, created by artificial intelligence research company OpenAI, aims to simulate human conversation based on learning from human writing and trainers.
The chatbot is still being developed and its creators acknowledge its limitations including using "plausible-sounding but incorrect or nonsensical answers" and being "excessively verbose".
But could it imagine being a politician? Here is what we learnt when we asked it to try.
Firstly, chatbot politicians are polite.
During his time as prime minister, Boris Johnson took part in some pretty angry exchanges with Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer.
Mr Johnson called Sir Keir a "pointless human bollard" and "Captain Crash-A-Roony Snooze Fest". Sir Keir said Mr Johnson was "totally deluded" and "totally failing".
However, when we asked ChatGPT to write an exchange between the two men, their relationship was somewhat different.
It began: "Good morning, Keir. How are you today?"
"Good morning, Boris. I'm doing well, thank you. How are you?" came the reply.
"I'm doing well, thank you. So, Keir, I wanted to talk to you about the government's plans for Brexit."
"Yes, I'd be happy to discuss that with you. What specifically do you want to know?"
"Well, we've been working on a new trade deal with the European Union, and I wanted to get your thoughts on it."
The exchange continues in this vein, with both men agreeing to work together in the interests of the country "regardless of political differences".
"Thank you, Boris. Have a good day," robot Sir Keir concludes.
For anyone who remembers the Brexit debates in Parliament, or the PMQs from earlier this year, this display of mutual goodwill will feel very unfamiliar.
When we asked the chatbot to take it up a level and write a "fiery exchange" between the two politicians, we were swiftly admonished.
"I'm sorry," said ChatGPT, "but I am not programmed to create content that is inflammatory."
Currently, the chatbot's knowledge only goes up to 2021, meaning we were unfortunately not able to simulate a conversation between Sir Keir and Mr Johnson's successor Rishi Sunak.
Moving away from Prime Minister's Questions, we asked the computer to have a go at writing an MP's maiden speech - the first speech they give in the House of Commons.
The result was pretty good.
The fake MP begins by praising Parliament as "an esteemed body". They then express humility at the trust placed in them by their constituents and pledge to "serve to the best of my ability".
Their local constituency's community is praised as "diverse and vibrant".
Robot MP says they will always put their constituent's interests first and promise to work "across party lines to find solutions to challenges we face".
Add in a few references to the constituency's local football club, and this is pretty similar to the average MP's first speech to Parliament.
And at least one parliamentarian, has already had a go at using a chatbot to write their speech.
Conservative MP for Bosworth Luke Evans asked the tool to write a "Churchillian speech on the state of the United Kingdom over the last 12 months" and read out the 324-word script to MPs.
The speech praises the government for "its success in managing the economy" and "implementing its ambitious plan for Brexit".
It finishes with a quote from the wartime leader Winston Churchill: "Success is not final, failure is not fatal: it is the courage to continue that counts", before adding: "I believe that the UK has shown that courage over the past 12 months."
ChatGPT is not yet allowed to "express political opinions or engage in political activism".
So we are unlikely to see it pop up on ballot papers in the foreseeable future.
And that means the likes of Rishi Sunak and Keir Starmer are safe in their jobs...for now.
Let's give the last word to the chatbot.
Asked if a bot could one day be prime minister, it said: "Overall, while it is theoretically possible for a robot to be the prime minister of a country, it would be a challenging task and would likely require significant advancements in artificial intelligence and decision-making capabilities."
Which sounds exactly like the kind of answer a quietly-ambitious politician would give.
Opening hours are being cut at a waste and recycling centre to "better reflect the site's usage after the pandemic" and bring down running costs.
The depot on Swindon Road in Cheltenham will be open from 8.30am to 4pm, Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays, and the site will close on Wednesdays.
It currently opens from 7.30am until 7.30pm every week day in the summer and until 6.30pm in the winter.
The changes will start on 1 February.
Saturday hours will be slightly reduced, with the current 7.30am to 4pm opening times cut to 8.30am to 3pm.
The site will maintain its current Sunday hours between 9am and noon.
Cheltenham Borough Council's leader Tim Harman said Swindon Road depot is a valuable facility, and should not have its opening hours reduced.
He said: "I use it personally and I think we should make it as easy as possible for people to use it for recycling, not more difficult."
Waste, recycling and street services cabinet member Iain Dobie said the reduction in opening hours would help deliver savings needed by the council - of around £35,000 a year.
"Proposed changes to the opening hours will reduce energy consumption and therefore energy costs to support the climate emergency and budget pressures at the same time," he told a cabinet meeting on December 20.
He also said the introduction of a wider range of recycling at the site will support the council's ambition to reduce the amount of waste going to landfill.
A severe winter storm that has swept across North America has left the city of Buffalo, New York, looking like a war zone, the state governor has said.
Western New York State has recorded 28 weather-related deaths.
"This is a war with mother nature and she has been hitting us with everything she has" since Thursday, state governor Kathy Hochul said.
Blizzard conditions stretching from Canada to the Mexican border have now killed at least 56 people in total.
The region around Buffalo has been worst affected, with 27 deaths reported there.
Governor Hochul, a native of Buffalo, said: "It is [like] going to a war zone, and the vehicles along the sides of the roads are shocking."
She said residents were facing a "life-threatening situation", as many emergency vehicles were unable to reach worst-hit areas or got stuck in snow themselves.
One family with young children - aged 2 to 6 - had to wait for 11 hours before being rescued in the early hours of Christmas Day.
"I was basically just hopeless," the father, Zila Santiago, told CBS News. He said he had managed to stay warm by keeping the engine running and kept distress at bay by playing games with the children.
More victims are expected to be discovered once melting snowdrifts reveal trapped vehicles and allow access to remote homes.
Governor Hochul, who spoke to Joe Biden on Monday, said the US president had offered "the full force of the federal government" to support New York state.
The "bomb cyclone" winter storm - which occurs when atmospheric pressure plummets, causing heavy snow and winds - has disrupted travel across the US.
Forecasters say it will ease off in the next few days, but the advice remains to avoid travelling unless essential.
Over the weekend an estimated 250,000 homes and businesses experienced blackouts - although power has been steadily restored.
Storm-related deaths were also reported in Vermont, Ohio, Missouri, Wisconsin, Kansas, and Colorado. South Florida's temperatures dropped so low, that iguanas froze and fell from trees.
The western US state of Montana was the worst hit by the cold, with temperatures dropping to -50F (-45C).
In Canada, the provinces of Ontario and Quebec are bearing the brunt of the storm.
Four fatalities occurred when a bus rolled over on an icy road near the town of Merritt, in the western province of British Columbia.
A severe winter storm that has swept across North America has left the city of Buffalo, New York, looking like a war zone, the state governor has said.
Western New York State has recorded 28 weather-related deaths.
"This is a war with mother nature and she has been hitting us with everything she has" since Thursday, state governor Kathy Hochul said.
Blizzard conditions stretching from Canada to the Mexican border have now killed at least 56 people in total.
The region around Buffalo has been worst affected, with 27 deaths reported there.
Governor Hochul, a native of Buffalo, said: "It is [like] going to a war zone, and the vehicles along the sides of the roads are shocking."
She said residents were facing a "life-threatening situation", as many emergency vehicles were unable to reach worst-hit areas or got stuck in snow themselves.
One family with young children - aged 2 to 6 - had to wait for 11 hours before being rescued in the early hours of Christmas Day.
"I was basically just hopeless," the father, Zila Santiago, told CBS News. He said he had managed to stay warm by keeping the engine running and kept distress at bay by playing games with the children.
More victims are expected to be discovered once melting snowdrifts reveal trapped vehicles and allow access to remote homes.
Governor Hochul, who spoke to Joe Biden on Monday, said the US president had offered "the full force of the federal government" to support New York state.
The "bomb cyclone" winter storm - which occurs when atmospheric pressure plummets, causing heavy snow and winds - has disrupted travel across the US.
Forecasters say it will ease off in the next few days, but the advice remains to avoid travelling unless essential.
Over the weekend an estimated 250,000 homes and businesses experienced blackouts - although power has been steadily restored.
Storm-related deaths were also reported in Vermont, Ohio, Missouri, Wisconsin, Kansas, and Colorado. South Florida's temperatures dropped so low, that iguanas froze and fell from trees.
The western US state of Montana was the worst hit by the cold, with temperatures dropping to -50F (-45C).
In Canada, the provinces of Ontario and Quebec are bearing the brunt of the storm.
Four fatalities occurred when a bus rolled over on an icy road near the town of Merritt, in the western province of British Columbia.
New legislation to tackle hare coursing is helping to "significantly reduce" the number of offences in Lincolnshire, police have said.
Under the measures, trespass, or being equipped to trespass, with the intention of using a dog to search for a hare is now a criminal offence.
Supt Lee Pache said it meant officers could stop and search vehicles, seize dogs and make arrests.
He said police action was also having an impact on reducing offences.
Lincolnshire is one of the areas most frequently targeted by coursers due to its flat, rural areas, with December traditionally seeing the most incidents.
According to police, coursers are often engaged in illegal betting involving large sums of money and the dogs involved can also be worth thousands of pounds.
In previous years, some parts of Lincolnshire were described as resembling the "Wild West" after an escalation in the level of violence used by coursers.
Supt Pache, head of specialist operations with Lincolnshire Police, said: "History has shown us these are very dangerous people."
However, he said the formation of a new rural crime task force to combat criminal activity, including hare coursing, along with the new legislation, was deterring criminals from coming to the county.
In recent weeks, Supt Pache said the force had made an "unprecedented" 22 arrests and seized or recovered 32 dogs.
"In terms of the specifics around law and legislation, I actually think the new legislation is having the greatest impact," he said.
"In the past, unless we caught them [in the act] we would struggle to deal with offenders," he added.
Under the new measures, introduced in August, anyone caught hare coursing faces an unlimited fine and up to six months in prison.
Those convicted can also be stopped from owning or keeping dogs.
Supt Pache said the Lincolnshire force was also employing an intelligence-led approach and sharing information with other forces.
In England, there are an estimated half a million brown hares left, but numbers are declining as they face threats including poaching and habitat loss.
Adam Grogan, the RSPCA's head of wildlife, described hare coursing as "a barbaric bloodsport".
"Hare coursing gangs inflict fear and suffering on their targets - the hare - but our rescue teams have also seen many dogs, used for coursing, coming into our care having been injured during the sport or abandoned when their owners no longer have use for them," he said.
Heat pumps and solar panels have helped three Wiltshire leisure centres become carbon neutral.
Installations took place at Five Rivers in Salisbury, Corsham's Springfield Campus and the Olympiad in Chippenham.
It was funded with government grants and puts Wiltshire Council on course to become carbon neutral by 2030.
Councillor Ian Blair-Pilling said the centres were "integral" and the council should "lead by example" by improving its environmental footprint.
Five Rivers is one of 20 leisure centres owned and run by Wiltshire Council.
It now has one of the largest air-source heat pumps in the country and is expected to generate approximately £140,000 of electricity a year through its solar panels.
The heat pump works much like a fridge operating in reverse, by transferring heat from outside air into water, which can then heat rooms via radiators or underfloor heating.
It can also heat water being stored in a hot water cylinder for hot taps, showers and baths.
The pump uses less electrical energy than the heat it produces, making it more energy efficient.
Mr Blair-Pilling, from Wiltshire Council, said it was a "big step" to be able to switch off the gas at the Five Rivers site.
"To have that capacity of generating power under our control has got to be a good thing into the future," he added.
Phil McMullen, from the council's energy team, said they were "pretty pleased" with the panels and pumps.
"We've had many other councils contact us who want to come and look at what we've done here and ask questions on how they can achieve it themselves."
However not everyone has been so lucky.
At the Link Centre in Swindon they are reducing opening hours to save money after their energy costs went from around £600,000-a-year to £1.4million.
Barnaby Rich, from Greenwich Leisure Limited which runs the centre, said: "Unfortunately there are pools closing this winter because people can't afford to operate them.
"We've got no plans to close our pools. We are doing everything we can to control consumption.
"We are doing everything we can to reduce our costs and we will weather this storm over the winter."
The work was funded through the government's Public Sector Decarbonisation Scheme.
It provides grants for public sector bodies to fund heat decarbonisation and energy efficiency measures.
A "critically endangered" leopard has arrived at a conservation project in Kent as part of an international breeding programme.
Leia, a five-year-old Amur leopard, was transported to The Big Cat Sanctuary in Smarden on 15 December.
She will be partnered with a three-year-old male, Luka, from the same species.
A sanctuary spokesperson said her arrival from Norfolk had been "seamless".
Leia was born and raised at Thrigby Hall Wildlife Gardens in Great Yarmouth.
Amur leopards are found in the wild in far-eastern Russia in the Amur valley.
Their main threats are from poaching, habitat destruction and natural disasters.
They are the most critically endangered big cat with only about 100 estimated left in the wild, according to the Kent-based sanctuary.
Curator Briony Smith said: "We hope Leia and Luka can boost the genetic diversity and number in the captive population, which acts as a safety net for the species.
"We really look forward to getting to know Leia's personality and to see their relationship blossom."
There are believed to be only 215 Amur leopards in captivity worldwide.
The Big Cat Sanctuary has described the planned mating of the pair as "significant".
Chester Zoo and the University of Chester have joined forces to offer a "game changing" new course "vital to saving our planet".
Applications have opened for the Conservation and Sustainability Education postgraduate course.
The University of Chester said it will enable educators to "find solutions to climate and biodiversity emergencies".
Chester Zoo said it was a "big step" to train more conservationists and empower people to live more sustainably.
Liz Webb, Chester Zoo's conservation academy training manager, said: "Education is vital to saving our planet.
"It has a crucial role to play if we're to resolve the urgent crises we're currently facing in the form of climate change and global biodiversity loss."
She said it can only truly be done with "more and better trained educators who thoroughly understand the magnitude of the environmental challenges we face and have the skills to engage their learners and organisations with the solutions needed to address them".
The course for education professionals, which starts in January, was the "first of its kind" in the UK, and the first education course developed by a zoo and a university globally, Ms Webb said.
She added it was a "big step forward" in the zoo achieving one of its key aims in its 10-year conservation masterplan.
Prof Helen O'Sullivan, provost and deputy vice-chancellor at the University of Chester, said: "This powerhouse partnership will be a game changer for how the vital topics of conservation and sustainability are ultimately taught in conservation organisations, schools, colleges and universities around the world."
She added it would equip educators to engage their learners and "make a real difference" in enabling them to play a "significant role in helping find solutions to the climate and biodiversity emergencies our planet is faced with".
Hollywood star Leonardo DiCaprio recently praised Chester Zoo for its conservation work in helping to resurrecting a rare fish species.
Anyone walking in the side streets off London's Oxford Street may come across a set of huge portraits highlighting regions devastated by climate change.
The enormous free display forms part of the second exhibition at the Soho Photography Quarter.
Called Fire/Flood, it features works by London-based photographer Gideon Mendel who visits areas hit by flooding or wildfires to document the destruction.
Photos shared with the BBC show how he created the works.
The blown-up images which make up the exhibition and have been on display since the end of November are taken from two series of photographs by the South African artist.
One set, called Drowning World, features portraits documenting floods in countries like Nigeria and Pakistan, while the other, named Burning World, looks at the increase in the extremity of wildfires across the world.
The free exhibition, which can be found just off Oxford Street, includes a 40m (131ft) long frieze of images, large-scale over-street banners and a large projection of a newly commissioned film which runs each night after dusk.
Speaking about the images, Mendel said the people included in each photo "have taken the time - in a situation of great distress - to engage the camera, looking out at us from their inundated homes and devastated surroundings".
"They are showing the world the calamity that has befallen them."
He added that his subjects "are not victims in this exchange", but rather "the camera records their dignity and resilience".
"They bear witness to the brutal reality that the poorest people on the planet almost always suffer the most from climate change," he said.
At least 38 deaths have now been linked to a severe Arctic freeze that continues to pummel the US and Canada.
Officials say 34 people died across the US, with the worst-hit area being the city of Buffalo, in New York state.
Four fatalities occurred in Canada when a bus rolled over on an icy road near the town of Merritt, in the western province of British Columbia.
The scope of the winter storm has been unprecedented, stretching from Canada as far south as the Rio Grande.
Forecasters say the storm will ease off in the next few days, but the advice remains to avoid travelling unless essential.
The storm has wreaked havoc for days, but power has been steadily restored after earlier blackouts.
Fewer than 200,000 customers were without power as of Sunday afternoon EDT, down from a peak of 1.7 million, the Associated Press reports.
Thousands of flights have been cancelled, preventing many people from reaching their families at Christmas.
More than 55 million Americans remained under wind chill alerts on Sunday.
The "bomb cyclone" winter storm - which occurs when atmospheric pressure plummets, causing heavy snow and winds - has disrupted travel across the US.
New York State Governor Kathy Hochul - a native of Buffalo - said : "This will go down in history as Buffalo's most devastating storm."
"It is [like] going to a war zone and the vehicles along the sides of the roads are shocking," she told reporters on Sunday evening.
Residents still faced a "very dangerous life-threatening situation" and anyone in the area should remain indoors, she said.
Twelve deaths were confirmed in Erie County, with some victims found dead in cars or snow banks.
Storm-related deaths were also reported in Vermont, Ohio, Missouri, Wisconsin, Kansas, and Colorado. South Florida's temperatures dropped so low, that iguanas froze and fell from trees.
The western US state of Montana is the worst hit by the cold, with temperatures dropping to -50F (-45C).
In Canada, the provinces of Ontario and Quebec are bearing the brunt of the storm.
In Quebec almost 120,000 customers were without electricity on Sunday. Officials say it could take some days for some households to be reconnected.
Four people died and dozens were injured after an intercity coach crashed in the Canadian province of British Columbia on Christmas Eve.
"Extremely icy road conditions" are believed to have caused the vehicle to roll over near the town of Merritt on Saturday, police say.
Temperatures had dropped to -3.9C in the area, about 220 miles (360km) from the provincial capital, Victoria.
Provincial premier David Eby expressed shock and sadness at the news.
"Our thoughts are with those impacted by the crash, their loved ones, and the first responders and health-care workers giving their all to treat people and keep them safe," he said.
The westbound coach had been travelling from Kelowna to Vancouver when it crashed on the Okanagan Connector, part of Highway 97, shortly after 18:00 (02:00 GMT Sunday), Global News reports.
A total of 52 people were sent to hospital as a result and 36 required treatment, health officials say. As of Sunday afternoon local time, eight people were still in hospital, two in serious condition.
Police said their investigation into the crash, which involved no other vehicle, was continuing.
All railway services between Canada's two biggest cities, Toronto and Montreal, were cancelled for Christmas Day after a train derailed in poor weather conditions.
"I don't know if you've ever worn anything with sequins, but I have, and those things are constantly falling off, especially if the clothes are from a fast-fashion or discount retailer," says Jane Patton, campaigns manager for plastics and petrochemicals with the Centre for International Environmental Law.
"They come off when you hug someone, or get in and out of the car, or even just as you walk or dance. They also come off in the wash."
The problem is the same as with glitter. Both are generally made of plastic with a metallic reflective coating. Once they go down the drain they will remain in the environment for centuries, possibly fragmenting into smaller pieces over time.
"Because sequins are synthetic and made out of a material that almost certainly contains toxic chemicals, wherever they end up - air, water, soil - is potentially dangerous," says Jane Patton.
"Microplastics are a pervasive, monumental problem. Because they're so small and move so easily, they're impossible to just clean up or contain."
Researchers revealed this year that microplastics had even been found in fresh Antarctic snow.
Biodegradable sequins have been invented but are not yet mass-produced.
The charity Oxfam surveyed 2,000 British women aged 18 to 55 in 2019, 40% of whom said they would buy a sequined piece of clothing for the festive season.
Only a quarter were sure they would wear it again, and on average respondents said they would wear the clothing five times before casting it aside.
Five per cent said they would put their clothes in the bin once they had finished with them, leading Oxfam to calculate that 1.7 million pieces of 2019's festive partywear would end up in landfill.
Once in landfill, plastic sequins will remain there indefinitely - but studies have found that the liquid waste that leaches out of landfill sites also contains microplastics.
One group of researchers said their study provided evidence that "landfill isn't the final sink of plastics, but a potential source of microplastics".
Viola Wohlgemuth, circular economy and toxics manager for Greenpeace Germany, says 40% of items produced by the clothing industry are never sold. These may then be shipped to other countries and dumped, she says.
Clothes decorated with sequins are, inevitably, among these shipments. Viola Wohlgemuth says she has seen them at second-hand markets and landfill sites in Kenya and Tanzania.
"There's no regulation for textile waste exports. Such exports are disguised as second-hand textiles and dumped in poor countries, where they end up in landfill sites or waterways, and they pollute," she says.
"It is not banned as a problem substance like other types of waste, such as electronic or plastic waste, under the Basel Convention."
Sequins are punched out of plastic sheets, and what remains has to be disposed of.
"A few years ago, some companies tried to burn the waste in their incinerators," says Jignesh Jagani, a textile factory owner in the Indian state of Gujarat.
"And that produced toxic smoke, and the state's pollution control board came to know of it and made the companies stop doing that. Handling such waste is indeed a challenge."
One of the developers of compostable cellulose sequins, Elissa Brunato, has said she began by making sheets of material that the sequins were then cut out of. To avoid this problem, she moved to making sequins in individual moulds.
The problem is not only the sequins, but the synthetic materials they are usually sewn on to.
According to the UN Environment Programme, about 60% of material made into clothing is plastic, such as polyester or acrylic, and every time the clothes are washed they shed tiny plastic microfibres.
These fibres find their way into waterways, and from there into the food chain.
According to one estimate from the International Union for Conservation of Nature, synthetic textiles are responsible for 35% of microfibres released into the oceans.
George Harding of the Changing Markets Foundation, which aims to tackle sustainability problems using the power of the market, says the fashion industry's use of plastic sequins and fibres (derived from oil or gas) also demonstrates a "deeply rooted reliance on the fossil fuel industry for raw materials".
He adds that clothing production is predicted to almost double by 2030, compared with 2015 levels, so "the problem is likely to only get worse without significant interventions".
Dressed in camouflage and combats and with self-defence training under their belts, the Union Island wardens look prepped for battle.
They are in fact on a mission to protect one of the world's tiniest species - one so rare it exists in just 50 hectares (123 acres) in a remote corner of one of the smallest islands in the Caribbean.
The Union Island gecko is the size of a paperclip, critically endangered and facing an insidious enemy - poachers.
Following its official discovery in 2005, the unique creature quickly became a coveted curio by collectors enthralled by its gem-like markings, earning it the dubious distinction of the most trafficked reptile in the Eastern Caribbean.
That is at least until Union islanders got involved. Since 2017, local residents trained as wardens have been patrolling the dense virgin forest of this location in St Vincent and the Grenadines, on call 24/7 in the event of an intruder.
Their work, carried out in sync with the government's forestry department and international conservationists including Fauna and Flora International (FFI), has been credited with an 80% increase in population. A recent survey indicated numbers of the gecko soared from 10,000 in 2018 to around 18,000 now - outnumbering the island's human population six-fold.
Community involvement has been key, says Glenroy Gaymes, the government's chief wildlife officer.
"A lot of people didn't even know the gecko existed," Mr Gaymes says. "We went house to house, held roadside meetings and school programmes to sensitise people. We had to go to the forest to capture one and bring it to the consultations so people knew what it was. Everyone was wowed - they were expecting something much bigger.
"It's just an inch-and-a-half long, and so pretty people were in awe."
"When I heard about the gecko only being found on Union Island it was a wow for me. It was amazing to see it for the first time with all its colours," she recalls.
The geckos slowly change hue when brought into the light from dark brown to multi-coloured.
A nature lover, Ms Froget was keen to get involved with the project.
"We patrol the forest on a daily basis and are on call around the clock. We are protecting everything - the fauna, the flora, even the stones which people used to use for construction as they are part of the geckos' habitat. The area has to be totally untouched," she explains.
"I love being in nature, listening to the sounds of the birds. I look forward to going to work every day," the mother-of-two smiles.
"My nine-year-old son loves the forest too. I tell him all about the gecko and how I help protect it. I feel so proud to be part of this work - and it's all happening on my island, my home."
In addition to active patrol training and self-defence skills - courtesy of Mr Gaymes who is a fourth degree black belt in taekwondo - wardens are taught about the many intriguing species that call the forest home and the traditional uses for medicinal plants so that they can pass their knowledge on to local schoolchildren and visitors.
What Union Island lacks in monetary wealth it makes up for in rich biodiversity. Since the gecko project began, the team has extended its work to protect a number of other endemic creatures too, like the "pink rhino" iguana, also under threat from poachers.
Both reptiles' rarity and striking colours have been their downfall.
"Most of the collectors are naturalists; they want the geckos because they are different. They want to learn how to breed them and be the first to learn about them so they can show off to their peers," explains FFI's Caribbean programme manager Isabel Vique.
Ms Vique's collectors come from as far as the US and Europe and some arrive by yacht.
"But since we've been on the ground, there has been an 80% reduction in the number [of geckos] advertised online."
Poachers previously took advantage of Union islanders' friendly nature to locate the geckos' habitat.
"They would come to the island pretending to be tourists and go around asking the locals where they can see them," Ms Vique says, adding: "We have been raising awareness so now people won't tell you where to find the gecko, they will point you to the police station instead."
The gecko has been protected by international treaty CITES since 2019, thanks to the government's efforts, affording it the highest level of protection. Poachers face a hefty fine and a possible prison sentence if caught.
As one of the world's last remaining tropical dry forests, the geckos' Chatham Bay home is a "kind of living laboratory for West Indies wildlife", says FFI's project manager James Crockett.
"Caribbean dry forest is one of the most endangered habitats on the planet. Very few are undisturbed like Chatham Bay," he tells the BBC.
And that makes the project all the more valuable.
"I believe the Union Island gecko is the perfect representative mascot for the island to be known by in the wider world - it's small, perfect and beautiful," Mr Crockett adds.
Roseman Adams, co-founder of local NGO the Union Island Environmental Alliance which has been at the forefront of the gecko conservation endeavours, agrees.
"Some in government still believe the area is good for a major tourism development. We have been trying to communicate the value of having this healthy, undisturbed dry forest in which we are finding more and more species new to the world," he says.
"If we lose that opportunity to find and preserve them, they will be lost forever."
For Mr Adams, the gecko has a special symbolism.
"The fact that the gecko has survived for thousands of years means it's very resilient. When it raises its tail it looks proud," he says.
"This species represents us as Unionites - we may be small but we are proud and resilient."
Around three billion litres of water are lost through leaks across hundreds of thousands of miles of water pipe in England and Wales daily, says water industry economic regulator Ofwat.
Engineers have now developed miniature robots to patrol the pipe network, check for faults and prevent leaks.
They say maintaining the network will be "impossible" without robotics.
Water industry body Water UK told BBC News that companies were already "investing billions" in leakage.
But a recent Ofwat report pointed to a lack of investment by water companies. It named several that it said were "letting down customers and the environment" by not spending enough on improvements. Water UK responded saying that leakage was at "its lowest level since privatisation".
Leaks are a widespread and complicated problem: Across the UK, hundreds of thousands of kilometres of pipe - of varying age and in varying condition - supply millions of properties with water.
Colin Day from Essex and Suffolk Water said: "In [this region] alone, we look after more than 8,500km (5,282 miles) of pipe and only about half the leaks in those pipes are visible, which means it's complicated to pinpoint where [the rest] are."
Wasted water has been a particularly sensitive issue this year. According to Water UK, three companies - South East Water, South West Water, and Yorkshire Water - still have localised hosepipe bans in place following the summer drought. And, amid the cost of living crisis, Ofwat estimates 20% of customers in England and Wales struggle to pay their water bill.
In the last year, though, according to Ofwat, companies have reduced leakage by an average of about 6%.
The industry has committed to a government target of halving the amount of water lost by 2050. Water UK accepted that progress needed to "accelerate". "We're adopting the latest technology, including special in-pipe cameras; satellite imaging; thermal drone technology, high-tech probes, and artificial intelligence," it told BBC News.
We visited the site of a leak repair with Essex and Suffolk Water, which is owned by Northumbria Water. At a suburban site, a team was carefully excavating - navigating the overlying sewer pipe, gas supply and electricity cables to locate an underground leak.
"This one wasn't visible - we detected it through monitoring flow in our network," said Colin Day from Essex and Suffolk Water.
"We've covered the biggest leaks - burst pipes that that people see. It's these smaller, hidden leaks that we need to find."
Essex and Suffolk Water is testing "non-dig" repairs, including sealants that can be safely injected into pipes to repair cracks before they develop into a major leak. The technological revolution in leak prevention, according to some scientists, will be miniature robots.
Some companies already use tethered robots to investigate pipes that are inaccessible. But most of the network is currently inaccessible without digging. This is where much smaller, artificially intelligent machines come in.
A new generation of underground robotic pipe patrollers is being tested at the Integrated Civil and Infrastructure Research Centre (ICAIR) at the University of Sheffield.
Pipebots are miniature, mobile robots with cameras for eyes and all-terrain legs. They are being developed in collaboration with the water industry to patrol pipes and find cracks and weaknesses before they develop into leaks.
"Companies only respond reactively to faults at the moment, not proactively," explains Prof Kirill Horoshenkov. "We need to have the presence of robots so they can continuously collect data before the onset of faults."
Holding the toy car-sized robot in his hand, Prof Horoshenkov explained: "They move along the pipe, taking pictures and they have a microphone to listen to the pipe. They're designed to make decisions about whether the pipe is likely to develop a fault or not."
Artificial intelligence specialist Prof Netta Cohen from the University of Leeds says the biggest challenge for pipebots is communication.
"Underground, there's no GPS. So they will communicate with each other at short ranges (using sound or wifi)."
She and her colleagues are developing a system where a larger "mother" robot carries and deploys a group of miniature robots.
"They will deposit these little guys to go into the smaller pipes and collect them when they're done," explained Prof Cohen. "We will need a whole society of these robots to work in all these kilometres of pipe.
"If you think about the state of our infrastructure," she added, "it is so urgent to do something. It has implications not just for industry, but for our impact on the environment."
The water pipes beneath our feet, said Prof Cohen, are some of the most inhospitable environments on Earth. "We can't do this without robotics."
At ICAIR, the team hopes the first pipebots will patrol the water network within five years. Until then, each time there is a leak, the water companies will have to dig - around the maze of sewer pipes, gas supplies and cables - to fix it.
From taking up residence in supermarkets to making a hospital their second home, some cats will go pretty much where they want.
Some just crave company and attention, says cat biologist and behaviourist Roger Tabor, but "most cats don't do this" and "these are the oddballs".
Is it possible to "police" a cat in such situations?
Ginger cat Garfield and black cat Lupin found fame at Sainsbury's in Ely, Cambridgeshire, and Aldi in Haverhill, Suffolk.
Garfield - "Mr Sainsbury's" - amassed thousands of followers on social media before his death in 2019 and Lupin's Aldi antics prompted dozens of people to photograph the cat.
Cat expert Roger Tabor, from Brightlingsea in Essex, says the reason they chose supermarkets is because "both these cats are very social animals, which doesn't happen unless they're socialised with people very early on".
"They're not only very relaxed, but seem to thrive on being where it's warm and they get attention."
Cats in a clinical setting are probably not ideal, but for more than five years fluffy ginger cat Henry has been a regular visitor to Addenbrooke's Hospital in Cambridge - with more than 5,000 followers on his Facebook page.
Although he has a comfortable home nearby, the seven-year-old has made the hospital site his second home - despite being put outside whenever he's spotted patrolling the corridors.
Bosses at Addenbrooke's continue to embrace Henry as one of their own and acknowledge the cat "does seem to have found a place in the hearts of many of our staff and patients" - but they are keen that he is not encouraged inside.
"In any hospital, the administrators will be thinking about allergies, but on the other hand there's the consideration about how popular Henry is and at times of stress, cats genuinely are stress relievers," Mr Tabor says.
"Of course, you can try to police a cat, but in an environment with revolving or open doors, it's very difficult. It's a real dilemma."
The hospital recognises Henry seems set on staying.
"We are all very fond of Henry, but his affection for us does sometimes become an issue when he comes into the food concourse," a spokesman says.
"Even though it's Christmas, please don't be tempted to treat Henry."
Speaking about Henry, Lupin and Garfield, Mr Tabor says: "Most cats don't do these things. These are the oddballs of the cat world."
Why choose busy supermarkets or hospitals?
"They're going to get the attention they thrive on," he says.
"The positive reinforcement they gain from meeting people outweighs the negatives of being constantly put back outside."
Theo is a 13-year-old Siamese cross who has been terrorising parts of Ipswich with his thieving ways and embarrassing his owners for years.
He is a cat burglar - a kleptomaniac kitty who apparently cannot be reformed.
Theo has been known to break into neighbours' homes through open windows or cat flaps and bring home any treasures he can find, from soft toys to cash and Christmas decorations.
"Cat burglars like Theo are rare - but they make headline news," Mr Tabor says.
"With cats like this, the normal developmental pattern in the very early weeks didn't happen and while he wants to hunt and retrieve things, he's become fixated on toys which he thinks of as prey.
"From the cat's point of view, he's not a thief, he's just behaving normally."
Theo shows no signs of mending his criminal ways.
"At the moment he likes to visit my neighbour and steal his cats' Kevin the Carrot soft toys," Ms Drouet says.
"We've talked to Theo about his thieving, but I don't think even he knows why he does it.
"He definitely has a shifty look about him - maybe his dad came from the wrong side of the tracks and it's genetic."
Mr Tabor adds: "To put a positive spin on this, the owners have maybe come out of this quite well. I'm sure Theo's neighbours find it quite delightful, and it is definitely better than some of the other things cats catch and bring home."
A bull has been introduced to a herd of European bison, reintroduced to woods near Canterbury, Kent.
Three female bison, once indigenous to Britain but extinct for thousands of years, were introduced in July to help naturally manage woodland.
In September one of the younger females that had come from Ireland surprised rangers by giving birth.
It had been hoped to bring the bull from Germany in August, but this was delayed by paperwork until 23 December.
Mark Habben, Wildwood Trust director of zoological operations, said: "The arrival of the bull marks the start of the Wilder Blean journey in earnest and it's incredibly fitting that it coincides with a new year.
"I can't wait to see what the next 12 months will bring for this important project."
As the bison graze in their enclosure at Blean Wood they clear non-native conifers, allowing native species to flourish, and creating paths for other animals to use.
Stan Smith, wilder landscapes manager at Kent Wildlife Trust, said: "We believe we will be able to show just how bison are engineering their environment, performing a role that no other quite can."
People in Guernsey making Christmas dinner are being told to prevent fats or oils from going down the sink.
Guernsey Water said households should "be sure" to wipe any remaining fats or oils from pans once they had cooled before doing any washing up.
Any fats that did remain should be wiped up with kitchen roll and put into food waste bins, it added.
Fats and oils that go down pipes can cool and cause fatbergs, potentially blocking them.
Fatbergs also often include other items that have gone into sewers, such as wet wipes.
Birds that dive to hunt could have adapted into an evolutionary "dead end", according to new research.
Scientists at the University of Bath found highly specialised species such as penguins and cormorants could be at greater risk of extinction.
Analysis of 727 species of water birds revealed once they evolve to dive, this trait is never seemingly reversed.
But the researchers are hopeful the discovery can help inform conservation strategies for diving birds.
Joshua Tyler and Dr Jane Younger found less than a third of water birds dive, and there are three different forms of diving.
Wing divers such as penguins use their wings to propel themselves through water, while others foot dive - kicking their feet to swim.
Plunge divers such as gulls and gannets dive vertically from the air into the water to catch their prey.
The researchers found the different forms of diving evolved independently from one another and are ideally suited to the species' environments.
But it leaves diving birds at much greater risk as global warming starts to impact their habitat.
Mr Tyler said: "You can imagine that a slight shift in the range of diets of penguins for example could have massive impacts on penguins and their ability to forage in those environments."
He said on the other hand gulls "will take a chance at anything, even a chip sandwich out of your hand at the seaside".
Mr Tyler continued: "It raises interesting questions about thinking about these species' ability to evolve and how well we think they might change or adapt in the future."
He added that rather than approaching conservation "from a static point of just thinking about today" the research was about "trying to connect these modern changes with these ancestral changes".
The researchers did not find any examples of birds that had evolved to dive which subsequently evolved to reverse the trait.
But Mr Tyler said it would only take one example to disprove their theory, and such a finding "would be really exciting".
An offshore wind farm project is increasing its capacity to provide power to 700,000 extra homes, the company behind it said.
The Norfolk Offshore Wind Zone consists of two farms, the Vanguard and the Boreas.
Energy company Vattenfall said it was possible by using more powerful turbines, but fewer of them.
The project's director, Rob Anderson, said there would be "no additional impact on residents".
The two wind farms that make up the project were granted planning permission by the government, which said there was a "pressing need" for renewable sources.
Vattenfall said the capacity of the zone would be increased to more than 4.2-gigawatts, meaning that an additional 700,000 homes would be powered, taking the total to 4.6 million.
The company said it would be one of the largest offshore wind zones in the world when built.
Alterations to the turbines allowing for the increased capacity were classed as "non material changes" to the original planning application, the company said.
"In fact, offshore, using fewer, larger turbines results in environmental benefits overall, including over the lifetime of the project," Mr Anderson said.
The director added it would provide "clean energy while turning the region into a powerhouse of renewable energy".
Consent for the Vanguard wind farm was originally given by the government in July 2020.
That was quashed by High Court judge Mr Justice Holgate in February 2021, but reapproved by the government earlier this year.
Consent for Boreas Offshore Wind Farm was granted in December 2021.
More than 23,000 people have given their views about plans to charge motorists to drive into and around Cambridge.
The charge would be at least £5 and pay for a £50m expansion of Cambridgeshire's bus network, as well as walking and cycling upgrades.
A consultation into the proposals closed at 12:00 on Friday.
Officials at the Greater Cambridge Partnership (GCP), which put forward the idea, will now analyse the results.
The GCP said it had never before received so many responses to a consultation.
More than 23,000 people completed an online survey about the plans and another 900 emails were sent to the GCP during the 10-week exercise.
Elisa Meschini, a Cambridgeshire county councillor who also chairs the GCP's executive board, said: "There has never been a more important time for us to find ways to create and provide a modern transport network that is fit for our growing and thriving region, so I would like to thank the thousands of people that contributed to the debate over the last 10 weeks.
"It has been incredibly important to us to hear from as many residents, businesses, voluntary groups and organisations as possible so to have had 23,000 surveys completed reflects the wide nature of the engagement."
Under the plans, the GCP say a "London-style" bus network would be paid for by charging drivers entering or driving around a "Sustainable Travel Zone".
The proposed zone includes most of the city, as well as Addenbrooke's Hospital, but does not include park and ride sites.
The charges would apply between 07:00 and 19:00 on weekdays and include low and zero emission vehicles.
On Wednesday, South East Cambridgeshire's Conservative MP Lucy Frazer said she "cannot support the GCP proposals".
In a blog post she said a survey she had run highlighted concern at Addenbrooke's being included in the charging zone.
She wrote: "The GCP proposals would leave large numbers of my constituents worse off and fundamentally, the GCP plans would charge people for driving their vehicles into Cambridge and parts of South Cambridgeshire without offering them a viable different option."
In its response, Huntingdonshire District Council asked the GCP to remove the hospital from the charging zone.
But it also added: " [We] welcome the introduction of measures that have the potential to improve sustainable travel across Cambridgeshire and specifically enhance economic opportunities in Huntingdonshire through improved connectivity."
Cambridgeshire County Council has the final say over whether the proposals are adopted.
The GCP board is due to discuss the results of the consultation at a meeting in June but says conversations about "potential exemptions, discounts and reimbursements" will continue.
At the meeting in June the board will also decide whether to recommend that the county council implements the scheme.
The polar bear population in Canada's western Hudson Bay has dropped by 27% in just five years, a report has said.
A government report estimates that 618 animals lived in the area last year, down from 842 in 2016.
It says adult female bears and cubs are particularly affected and that climate change may be a factor in the decline.
The Arctic is now warming faster than the rest of the world, and the sea ice on which bears depend for seal hunting forms later and melts sooner each year.
By 2050, conservation scientists now say, the length of the season during which there is no ice could push bears to the point of starvation.
"The observed declines are consistent with long-standing predictions regarding the demographic effects of climate change on polar bears," the Canadian government report says.
At the same time, the document cautions against making a direct link between the decline and the loss of sea ice, pointing that four of the past five years have seen good ice conditions.
It suggests that changes in the local seal population could be a contributing factor.
The report also cites the bear's migration to neighbouring regions.
The mammals - the largest living land carnivorous animals - pass along the western Hudson Bay coast in Manitoba province every autumn as they return to the sea ice.
They are the most studied specimen in the world, and their migration attracts millions of dollars' worth of tourism to the Manitoban town of Churchill, dubbed "the polar bear capital of the world".
It is common practice for town residents to leave their car doors unlocked so others have somewhere to run to should they encounter a wandering bear.
In 2023, Russia, India and the European Space Agency will be launching missions to the Moon, and further into deep space.
This follows Nasa's Artemis I mission, which recently made a lunar orbit, using a spacecraft designed to put people back on the Moon's surface.
India plans to launch the Chandrayaan 3 mission to the Moon in June 2023, taking a landing module and robotic rover to explore the surface. India first reached the moon in 2008 with Chandrayaan 1.
Russia plans to launch its Luna 25 mission in July 2023, putting a probe on the Moon to gather samples from its southern polar region.
SpaceX plans to take Japanese billionaire Yusaku Maezawa and eight other passengers on the dearMoon voyage around the Moon in late 2023. This would be the first mission for its Starship vehicle, which is capable of carrying 100 people.
Nasa, the United States space agency, plans to launch its next Moon mission in 2024. Called Artemis II, it will take astronauts to orbit the Moon.
The US Agency is due to launch the Artemis III mission in 2025 or 2026, landing the first woman and the first person of colour on the Moon.
It will be the first time that people have walked on the Moon since the last of Nasa's Apollo missions in 1972. Nasa has said it will use the Space X Starship for the mission.
China has announced plans with Russia to set up a joint base on the Moon by 2035, but no timeline has been drawn up for the project.
The aim of space powers, such as the US, Russia and China, is to set up bases on the Moon for astronauts to live in, says Dr McDowell, astronomer at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics in the US.
"The Moon is being used as a stepping stone to places like Mars," he says. "It's a great place to test out deep space technologies."
It also takes less fuel to launch a spacecraft from the Moon than from Earth to travel into deep space, says Dr Lucinda King, space project manager at the University of Portsmouth.
And, she adds, a fuel source has been discovered on the Moon.
"It's known there's water at the south pole of the Moon," says Dr King. "This could be broken down into hydrogen and oxygen, which could be used to refuel craft for journeys to Mars and elsewhere."
"That's one reason why there's a rush to get back to the Moon - to stake a claim to the water there."
Nasa will launch its Psyche spacecraft in summer 2023 to explore an asteroid called 16 Psyche, thought to be the remnant of a planet created in the earliest days of the solar system.
The European Space Agency (Esa), an organisation backed by 22 European countries, plans to launch its Jupiter Icy Moon Explorer (JUICE) in April 2023.
The probe will look for signs of life in the water ice believed to lie under the surface of three of Jupiter's moons - Ganymede, Callistro and Europa.
However, in protest at Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Esa will no longer use a Russian rocket to put its Euclid space telescope into orbit next year. It will instead use a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket.
It has also stopped working with Russia on its ExoMars mission to send a rover to Mars, delaying the launch until 2028.
China plans to put a telescope called Xuntian into low Earth orbit in December 2023, to map distant stars and black holes.
It has already landed probes and robotic rovers on the Moon and Mars, and it has put a scientific research station into space, called Tiangong.
"There's been a vision emerging in recent years of humanity spanning out to Mars and beyond," says Dr McDowell.
That is why countries like China and India have become space powers in recent years, alongside the US, Russia and Europe, he says.
"Their governments are thinking: if that's what the future looks like, we don't want our country to be left behind."
Nearly 1.5 million people are without power across several states as a powerful Arctic winter storm sweeps through the US and Canada.
Large parts of both countries are under winter weather alerts that stretch from coast-to-coast and as far south as the US-Mexico border.
The storm has brought damaging winds and freezing temperatures that can quickly lead to frostbite.
At least six storm-related deaths have been reported in the US.
Major airports have cancelled thousands of flights as the storm intensifies.
As of Friday morning, more than 1,400,000 people from Texas to Maine had no electricity as intense winds damaged power lines.
Power outages have also been reported in Canada, affecting 317,900 people in the provinces of Quebec and Ontario.
The US National Weather Service said that over 200 million people - or roughly 60% of the US population - are under some form of winter weather advisory.
Much of Canada, from British Columbia to Newfoundland, is also under extreme cold and winter storm warnings. Several school boards in Ontario, including Toronto, have cancelled classes.
This storm is set to bring the iciest Christmas in decades, say forecasters.
The National Weather Service (NWS) said temperatures of -50F (-45C) and even -70F were possible.
In the US, the bad weather has been linked to several deaths. Three fatal car crashes have been reported in the state of Kansas due to poor road conditions.
At least three others have died in Kentucky, Governor Andy Beshear said on Friday - two were killed in car accidents and another person described as "housing insecure" has died.
In Fort Worth, Texas, a man who was thought to be homeless died after being found outside in the bitter cold.
The Arctic air mass is projected to bring strong wind gusts and temperature of 15F (-9.4C) to El Paso, Texas, where newly arrived undocumented migrants are sleeping rough on city streets.
Ohio governor, Mike DeWine, called the weather a "unique and dangerous situation", particularly as people travel to be with loved ones over Christmas.
The storm has already wreaked havoc from Colorado to Kansas to Wyoming, and north in Minnesota.
On Wednesday, Wyoming Highway Patrol received 787 calls for help and recorded 104 crashes in just 12 hours.
In Ontario, Canada, police reported around 100 collisions due to freezing rain, heavy snow and ice pellets that have hit the region since Friday morning.
More than 6,900 flights in the US have been cancelled on Thursday and Friday, according to the flight-tracking site FlightAware.
In Canada, WestJet alone has cancelled 266 flights on Friday.
In anticipation of travel disruptions, major airlines including United, Delta and American have offered to waive fees for travellers who wish to reschedule their flights.
A frog that turns itself mostly transparent while sleeping may hold clues for understanding blood clotting in humans.
Scientists have long known about the glass frog but did not understand how it made itself see-through.
Now research has discovered that it is able to pool blood in its body without being negatively affected by clots.
The findings could advance medical understanding of dangerous blood clotting - a common serious condition.
The glass frog - which is about the size of a marshmallow - spends its days sleeping on bright green leaves in the Tropics.
In order to escape the attention of predators, the creature turns itself up to 61% transparent, disguising itself on the leaf.
"If you turn these frogs over, you could watch their heart beating by itself. You can see through the skin and see the muscle, the majority of the body cavity is really transparent," Jesse Delia, a researcher at the Museum of Natural History in New York, US told BBC News.
Now findings by Mr Delia and Carlos Taboada at Duke University, US have uncovered how the glass frogs perform this very unusual function.
By shining different wavelengths of light through the animals while active and sleeping, the scientists measured their opacity. They discovered that the creatures pool blood into their liver.
"They somehow pack most of the red blood cells in the liver, so they're removed from the blood plasma. They're still circulating plasma... but they do it somehow without triggering a massive clot," Mr Delia explains.
Up to 89% of the animal's blood cells become packed together, almost doubling the size of the liver, and allowing the frog to become transparent.
At night, when the creature wants to become active again to hunt or mate, it releases the red blood cells back into circulation and the liver shrinks back again.
Mr Taboada explains that the frog is still able to clot blood when necessary, for example when injured.
This ability to selectively pool and clot blood is the creature's "superpower", he says, and could open doors to a better understanding of blood clotting more generally.
In most animals, pooling blood together leads to clotting which can be life-threatening, for example leading to heart attacks in humans.
But the researchers stress that transferring that knowledge to practical application in human medicine could be decades away.
The research is published in the scientific journal Science.
A group of four British women recently arrived on a remote Antarctic island to look after its population of passing tourists and penguins. As they prepare for Christmas at the bottom of the world, they tell BBC News how they're settling into their new home.
When Clare Ballantyne reached the place she was going to call home for the next five months, she found it buried under metres of snow. "We warmed up very quickly by digging a lot," she says with a chuckle.
Clare was chosen along with three other women - Mairi Hilton, Lucy Bruzzone and Natalie Corbett - to look after the remote harbour of Port Lockroy, some 911 miles south of the Falkland Islands.
They beat thousands of other applicants to run the base through the Antarctic summer for the UK Antarctic Heritage Trust.
Once a British military base and research station, nowadays it consists of a post office, a museum and a gift shop. The team plays host to passing cruise ships and keeps an eye on the island's population of around 1,000 gentoo penguins.
Speaking to the women is extremely difficult, but Clare and Mairi - the team's wildlife monitor - have managed to tell me about their experience over a patchy satellite phone line.
"We were digging out access to the buildings, making sure that the solar panels were unlocked from snow and they were all working, that we had sufficient water and gas, and made sure that we were safe to stay on the island," Clare says.
The Royal Navy had been called in to help the team and fix the roof of the museum, which had been damaged under the weight of the snow. Clare recalls the moment the sailors left and the team remained on the island on their own, surrounded only by penguins and icebergs silently floating in the channel. "It was just incredible," she says.
Clare's job, as the postmaster, is to mail postcards sent by visiting tourists to countries all around the world. "The mail I send from here takes about four weeks to reach the UK," she tells me. "I'm really excited that I'm at the start of the journey where the mail goes off."
By the time I speak with Clare and Mairi, they have already spent several weeks in Port Lockroy and the team has settled into a well-oiled routine. "We get up at 7am," Mairi says. "We have breakfast, and go down to dig out the landing site where the guests arrive.
"We have one cruise ship in the morning. Tourists come and visit the museum, the shop and see the penguins. Then we have lunch and a second group of tourists arrive in the afternoon until about 6pm. In the evening we have dinner, we monitor the penguins and we do any other task that's needed," she adds.
Port Lockroy is the most popular tourist destination in Antarctica, with around 18,000 visitors each year. But it's a symbiotic relationship: the team relies heavily on assistance given by passing ships.
"We don't have any running water, so we get our drinking water from cruise ships," Mairi says, "and we also get showers there."
"We get fresh fruit and vegetables and bread from the ships that come to visit. The crews take very good care of us," Clare adds.
Since there's no internet connection in Port Lockroy, the main way for the team to be in touch with their families and keep up with events in the outside world is by using the wi-fi on the ships. And although the team has received advanced first-aid training, should they need to see a doctor, they can find one on board a visiting vessel.
But it's not always that straightforward. They say the unpredictability of Antarctic weather means that the team could suddenly remain isolated for days.
"You never know what the day is going to bring," Clare says. "You don't know if you're going to have a ship in the morning, if you're going to have a storm. You have to be very flexible."
Still, despite the challenges, they are still in awe of their surroundings. "Every morning when you walk up the snowy steps of the building, the mountains, and the icebergs in the channel that surrounds us, it's just beautiful and seeing the penguins puts a smile on your face," Clare says.
I ask them what it's like to be the only four humans among hundreds of resident penguins. "They're not as noisy as I expected," Mairi says. "They're very good neighbours and they're really funny to watch."
The team's main task when it comes to monitoring the wildlife is to count the eggs that are usually laid at this time of year. But Mairi says the changing weather conditions seem to have delayed the breeding season.
"There's lots of snow and we also don't have any fast sea ice in the bay, which is unusual. The penguins' eggs won't survive if they're laid in snow, so if we keep getting these warmer, milder winters, that's not going to be good for our penguins here."
Clare and Mairi say they haven't had much free time yet, but they're trying to savour every single moment they spend on the island. So I ask them if they're planning anything special for their very unusual Christmas.
"We are taking the day off," Mairi says. "Some of us are going to do a Christmas pudding, some mince pies and gingerbread biscuits. We'll just relax and have a Christmas dinner and do lots of things you'd usually do at home - but in Antarctica."
Russia's space agency says it is considering sending an empty spacecraft to the International Space Station (ISS) to bring home three crew members ahead of schedule, after their Soyuz capsule started leaking.
Roscosmos and Nasa said it was unclear how the external radiator on the spacecraft sustained a tiny puncture.
They have ruled out the impact of a meteor.
The leak started as two cosmonauts were preparing for a routine spacewalk.
A decision is yet to be made about how exactly the three crew members will be brought back to Earth.
The most likely option is to send another Soyuz spacecraft to collect them.
A less likely option is sending them home in the leaky capsule without most of its coolant, which regulates temperatures inside the crew compartment of the spacecraft.
The vehicle - known as MS-22 - flew Russian cosmonauts Dmitry Petelin and Sergey Prokopyev, as well as Nasa astronaut Frank Rubio, to the station in September.
But it began spraying coolant into space earlier this month, with Nasa TV capturing dramatic images of white particles streaming out of the capsule like snowflakes.
Joel Montalbano, Nasa's ISS program manager, said late February would be the most likely time to launch another Soyuz. The crew were due to return in March.
Nasa says that none of the crew are in danger.
The capsule is currently being vented with air flow allowed through an open hatch to the space station, Mr Montalbano said.
The ISS was launched in 1998 and is located about 400 km from the Earth.
Cosmonauts carry out tests and research at the station that will help future space missions.
'Tis the season to be jolly - but the sheer volume of stuff we throw away during the festive period is no-one's idea of fun.
Household waste typically increases at Christmas by around 30%, including cardboard, bottles or trees.
So how can you celebrate while doing less harm to the planet?
Here are four recycling and waste tips for having a more eco-friendly Christmas.
Not all wrapping paper will be accepted by recycling centres as it may contain plastic film or metallic elements, according to environmental charity WRAP.
There is a simple test that you can do to see if your wrapping paper can be recycled: crumple it into a ball. If it stays ball-shaped, it can likely be recycled. But if it springs back, it probably contains plastic and can't be recycled. Tissue doesn't tend to be recyclable because of the short fibres, and the same goes for tissue-like wrapping paper.
Make sure to remove ribbons, bows, batteries, sticky tape and other accessories before putting things in the recycling bin.
Even better, don't throw the paper away, save it for next year's gifts. If following this route, you're going to have to be very careful unwrapping - admittedly a near impossibility for excited little hands on Christmas morning. (Also you might want to make notes to avoid gifting your aunt back her own wrapping paper next year!)
Cardboard is recyclable but as with wrapping paper, remember to remove any tape, plastic or polystyrene inserts. Some boxes also have a glossy or waxed plastic film over them which makes them non-recyclable.
Flatten and squash boxes to make more room in your recycling bin, bag or box.
Empty and rinse bottles. Leftover foods or liquids can contaminate other recyclables and if bottles contain liquid they may not be recycled as deemed too heavy by the automated sorting process. Liquid can also damage the machinery. Leave on labels - these will be removed in the process, and squash down bottles to save space. Leave lids attached as this will ensure the lid is recycled along with the bottle.
You can check exactly what can and can't be recycled in your area using Recycle Now's Recycling Locator.
Approximately 6.6 million tonnes of food go to waste from our homes each year in the UK, costing households around £14 billion a year, or the average family £730, according to WRAP.
It says the amount of poultry thrown away in one year could make 800 million Boxing Day curries. And the amount of carrots thrown away every year by UK homes could feed Santa's nine reindeers a carrot a day for nearly 500,000 years.
Try to put leftover turkey in the fridge as soon as you can. It can be stored for up to two days, according to most recommendations. However, a large bird can take longer than that to eat, particularly if you feel you need a turkey break. Perhaps freeze what's left over and defrost either in the fridge or using the microwave on the defrost setting directly before re-heating. See the UK Food Standards website for specific turkey food safety tips.
Leftover Christmas pudding will usually keep for up to two weeks if refrigerated, according to Nigella Lawson's website, while US nutrition website Eat Right says that you can keep stuffing in the fridge for up to three or four days. Cooked pigs in blankets should be fine for a week, according to US government recommendations for chilling sausages and bacon.
The obvious way to waste less food is to simply buy and cook less of it. A Which? survey revealed that the top foods people buy too much of at Christmas are cheese, biscuits, chocolate, alcohol and vegetables.
Use Love Food Hate Waste's annual Ultimate guide to Christmas food planning. to find recipes for leftovers and for tips on how to freeze and reuse uneaten items to minimize your food waste this year.
At 1:03am on Monday 5 December, the most powerful laser on the planet flashed into life at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL) in California, in an experiment that sent shockwaves through the world of physics and beyond.
The laser targeted a fuel capsule, the size of a peppercorn, creating temperatures and pressures which sparked a fusion reaction - the reaction which powers the sun.
The National Ignition Facility (NIF) had done such experiments before, but this time the energy that came out of the reaction, was more than the laser power used to trigger it.
It was a landmark moment for fusion researchers and, while fusion reactors are still a long way from making electricity that we can use, it shows that the physics works.
"We have taken the first tentative steps towards a clean energy source that could revolutionise the world," said LLNL Director Kim Budil.
The promise of a working fusion reactor is dazzling. It would need relatively small amounts of fuel, would not produce any greenhouse gases and would leave very little of the radioactive waste that makes current nuclear reactors so unpopular.
The success at NIF will spur on the dozens of private companies which one day hope to build a commercial fusion reactor.
One private project in the UK is hoping for a big year in 2023. First Light Fusion, based just outside Oxford, has a novel way of creating fusion conditions.
It fires a small aluminium disc, at speeds of up to 20km per second, at a specially designed target containing the fuel needed for fusion.
On impact that target collapses creating huge pressure waves that can spark a fusion reaction.
Earlier this year, in a huge moment for the company, First Light confirmed that it had achieved fusion using this method.
In 2023 the team will start work on Machine 4, a much bigger reactor, which it hopes will also break the magic barrier in fusion - getting more energy out than was put in.
First Light is in a race with dozens of other firms trying to make fusion happen, but its founder is confident his firm is on the right track.
"I believe 2023 will be the year we make a significant strategic shift, from what has been essentially a very complex, important experiment, to making very real advances towards commercial fusion energy," says Nick Hawker, founder of First Light Fusion.
Meanwhile, back in the US, another significant announcement in the fusion world should come in early 2023.
The US government will announce which private company will receive $50m (£40m) of funding to build a pilot fusion plant. The goal will be to have a working reactor by the early 2030s.
Imagine an aircraft that can take off and land like a helicopter, but without the noise, expense and emissions.
That's the vision of firms developing so-called eVTOL (electric vertical take-off and landing vehicle) aircraft.
Designed for relatively short journeys and a handful of passengers, dozens of firms around the world are betting there is a market for them.
They argue that the eVTOL aircraft can reduce the cost of flying, as their electric motors are cheaper to run and maintain than helicopter engines.
Added to that, they ague their aircraft are quiet and emissions-free.
Bristol-based Vertical Aerospace is one firm hoping to be a player in this new industry.
Its VX4 took off for the first time earlier this year. For the first flight it was tethered to the ground and only spent ten minutes hovering.
But real progress will come in 2023 with a series of test flights. The aircraft will transition from vertical take-off to forward flight and fly at higher altitudes and faster speeds.
The aim is to get the VX4 certified to carry passengers around the middle of this decade.
Vertical Aerospace is racing numerous other eVTOL developers who are also testing aircraft.
Volocopter, based in Germany, plans public flight tests of its VoloCity model next year. It hopes to get the aircraft certified in 2024 and then launch services in Singapore, Paris and Rome.
Also next year, Lilium plans to build the first production version of its eVTOL. Based in Germany, Lilium has tested five prototype aircraft since 2017.
Rather than using rotors like Vertical Aerospace and Volocopter, Lilium uses 30 electric jets that can be tilted in unison to swing between vertical lift and forward flight.
The big hurdle for all these projects is to get certification from aviation regulators - an exacting and expensive process that can take years.
Even in wealthy countries, there are some areas where people find it impossible to get a signal of a decent strength for their mobile phones.
Add to them the billions of people in the poorest and most remote parts of the planet who have no signal at all, and you have a huge, untapped market.
Texas-based AST SpaceMobile has plans to address that gap in the mobile phone market.
Backed by some of the biggest names in the mobile phone industry, including AT&T and Vodafone, it has been developing technology that would enable a mobile phone to connect directly to a satellite to place calls or use data at 5G speeds.
It currently has a test satellite in low-earth orbit, but in 2023 it plans to launch five more satellites. They will be capable of intermittent coverage with a continuous global service available when 100 satellites are in position - possibly in 2024.
AST will not sell services directly to customers, instead it is working with phone service providers, to offer its satellite coverage as an extra option.
It will be a challenge to Starlink, the satellite broadband service developed by Elon Musk. That service requires a small satellite dish to hook up to the broadband.
AST hopes that the convenience of being able to connect using just a phone, at a reasonable price, will be a big draw.
"Coverage gaps are very real, and problematic. So this is a very attractive solution and a very big market. And that's why we've got so much support from mobile network operators," says Scott Wisniewski, from AST SpaceMobile.
A dolphin has died after a mother and her juvenile calf were found beached.
The pair were found in two separate locations on Anglesey and were returned to the sea after a 12-hour rescue operation.
However, one of the dolphins, believed the be the juvenile male, was found dead by HM Coastguard earlier.
A post-mortem examination will be carried out to try and establish why the dolphins became stranded, which could help inform conservation efforts.
The "unprecedented" rescue on Wednesday involved nine volunteers from British Divers Marine Life Rescue and HM Coastguard crews from Moelfre and Penmon.
The 2.15m (7ft) female was found on Pentraeth beach, but had to be taken to Moelfre on a flatbed truck after rescuers realised she could not be safely re-floated due to the tide being out on the flat beach.
Gem Simmons, the north Wales marine rescue co-ordinator, said it was the first time her team had ever moved a dolphin by road before in a rescue.
She said: "I stayed with her along with another medic and we kept her wet and made sure no water entered her blowhole."
She said it took about four minutes for the dolphin to swim off after being returned to the water.
The common dolphin was in good condition when she was found, with no signs of injury or illness, but swollen mammary glands indicated she was, or had been, nursing.
After the rescue, Ms Simmons received another call reporting another dolphin stranded at Wern y Wylan in Llanddona.
It was the 1.5m (5ft) juvenile lying in a salt marsh. He was placed in a water-filled channel in the hope the tide would take him out to sea.
But it was later found dead near Red Wharf Bay.
Why the dolphins became stranded is not known, but Ms Simmons said it would likely be a case of "navigational error".
Waste gases from a steelworks and household rubbish could be used to fuel aeroplanes for "guilt-free flying".
It comes as five projects have been awarded a share of a £165m UK government fund.
The projects will cut CO2 emissions by an average of 200,000 tonnes a year, once fully up and running.
The Department of Transport said the project will also produce 300,000 tonnes of sustainable aviation fuel a year.
The UK government said this was "enough to fly to the moon and back about 60 times" and equates to around 14,331,300 miles (23,063,991 km).
One of the projects will be based at Port Talbot steelworks and will convert steel mill off-gases into fuel.
Another scheme will develop a plant creating duel using carbon captured from a gas-fired power station and hydrogen made from renewable electricity.
The other successful projects include sustainable fuel plants in Teesside, Immingham and Ellesmere Port, which will cover domestic and commercial waste.
UK government Transport Secretary Mark Harper said: "Using waste or by-products to refuel airliners sounds like a flight of fancy, but... it's going to help us make guilt-free flying a reality.
"It's exactly this kind of innovation that will help us create thousands of green jobs across the country and slash our carbon emissions."
A Welsh government spokesman called it "great news", adding: "We are committed to helping create green jobs in the new industries of the future, which will help us deliver our ambition of creating a stronger, fairer and greener economy. This is exactly the type of investment we want to see more of here in Wales."
While some start the festive season to the tunes of Mariah Carey, for many Australians, there is another way of knowing Christmas is on the way.
The arrival of the clumsy Christmas beetle - a brightly coloured insect that sneaks into bed sheets, crashes into windows and swarms around streetlights in summer months.
"We have in Australia this really unique... biological event where Christmas is associated with the arrival of these beautiful, glittery, friendly beetles," Associate Professor at the University of Sydney, Dr Tanya Latty, tells the BBC.
The beetles - which don't bite or sting and are harmless - used to be a very common sight. In 1932, they were so prolific Queenslanders could be paid one pound to catch 200.
But now, scientists dream of seeing as many in one place. Most species of the beetle are unique to Australia - like the platypus and koala - but for many in the country, they have disappeared.
Scientists suspect this is due to habitat destruction - the insects feed off eucalyptus trees and their larvae eat native grass roots.
But the researchers hope to get clearer answers through the "Christmas beetle count project", led by Dr Latty.
"There are lots of people who seem to remember that these beetles used to be in massive numbers, you know - 10, 20 years ago. but that doesn't seem to be happening any more," Dr Latty says.
The project asks Australians to upload pictures of any Christmas beetles they see this festive season to an app, to work out how many there are and what may be contributing to their apparent decline.
"Without numbers, we can't even begin to address the conservation issues here," Dr Latty says.
Known as "citizen science", the input from members of public provides more information than would otherwise be available, Dr Latty says.
"Often we don't have the resources to do the kinds of large scale surveys... so this allows us to get lots of people out there collecting data from hopefully everywhere in the country," she says.
The insects - which belong to the scarab family, genus Anoplognathus - play an important role in the eco-system, with the larvae helping to aerate soil and the beetles acting as an important food source to other animals, such as lizards and birds.
Dr Latty warns Christmas beetles may be the "canary in the coal mine" to other species' declines.
"It really worries me that there are many other species that may be undergoing similar declines, but they're not as big and people haven't noticed," she says,
With their country having the worst rate of mammal extinction in the world, Australians have been asked to pay close attention to native species in recent years.
After the Australia's 2020 bushfires, scientists called on the public to head into fire-affected areas - where safe to do so - and upload pictures to the same app used for the Christmas beetle project.
The Australian Museum also launched an app known as FrogID, that asks members of the public to submit recordings of frog calls nationwide as populations decline. So far, more than 500,000 frog calls have been submitted.
And for those sitting on the fence about whether to get involved, Dr Latty has a simple message.
"This is sort of everyone's opportunity to contribute to protecting biodiversity. We don't really often have opportunities to be involved in these sorts of large-scale conservation projects.
"If it's going to take you a minute to upload that picture but potentially have a huge conservation benefit, why wouldn't you do it?"
The Perseverance rover has begun gathering the evidence that may answer the question of whether there is life on Mars.
It has dropped its first rock sample down on to the planet's surface to await retrieval and return to Earth.
It's a key moment in the decades-long quest to bring materials home from another planet for study in the lab.
It's thought that only by studying rock and soil samples on Earth can the question of life there be resolved.
The finger-sized sample tube was ejected from the robot's belly and was later photographed to make sure it had fallen correctly to the ground.
The American and European space agencies plan to fetch samples in 2030.
They may not be the ones now being deposited at the location known as Three Forks, in Mars' Jezero Crater. Indeed, it's more likely to be the rocks Perseverance will be carrying at that time, when the robot might be driving way beyond the crater rim.
But scientists can't risk the prospect of the rover breaking down in the meantime with its rock collection stuck inside, and that's prompted them to build an insurance depot now.
The Three Forks store guarantees something is available to pick up when the retrieval mission arrives.
The first sample tube to go into the depot is a volcanic, or igneous, rock dubbed "Malay". Three further examples of this type of rock will follow. Their chemistry would help researchers age Jezero Crater and the broader geological history of Mars.
"There's also a variety of sedimentary rocks that record different depositional environments, such as a river delta, or the bottom of an ancient lake," Perseverance mission scientist Meenakshi Wadhwa said. "Some of these environments could have been habitable, and some of these rocks could preserve evidence of ancient microbial life."
There will be three sedimentary cylinders.
In addition, Perseverance will drop samples of soil and atmosphere, along with a special tube that's been recording conditions inside the rover, including any contaminants given off from the vehicle.
If the nightmare happens and Perseverance dies, the fetch mission will be directed straight to Three Forks.
It will have two drones, equipped with claws, to grab the tubes and take them to the rocket system that will then blast them off Mars for the journey home.
To date, Perseverance has been drilling two examples of every rock it's sampled. This practice will end with the construction of the Three Forks store.
"We've had this paired sample strategy to ensure that we had one tube to put down in the depot and one tube to carry with us," explained Katie Stack Morgan, the deputy project scientist on Perseverance.
"Once we've constructed the depot, we will be able to move beyond this strategy and focus on single-sample acquisition. That's freeing in a lot of ways for the science team, because we can think about more locations and more types of rocks to sample," she told reporters.
Come January, Perseverance will have completed its basic mission in Jezero. But with all robotic systems healthy and so much science still in prospect, Nasa officials have already agreed to fund extended operations.
The vehicle, along with its scout drone, Ingenuity, will soon climb on to the delta mound that dominates the west of the crater.
A delta is a structure built up from the silt and sand dumped by a river as it slows on entry into a wider body of water.
It's the kind of feature that might just have trapped evidence of past microbial organisms.
Perseverance will investigate what appears to be evidence of flood activity, judging from the large size of some of the boulders scattered across the top of the delta.
The robot will then move to the edge of the crater where satellite imagery indicates there are carbonate-type sedimentary rocks. These again will be a good place to look for ancient microbial activity.
Perseverance still has more than 20 sample tubes waiting to be filled.
The sample-retrieval mission, comprising a landing platform, helicopters, a robotic arm and a return rocket is scheduled to leave Earth for Mars in mid-2028, with a roughly two-year cruise time.
The sample tubes it acquires - either from the Three Forks store or directly from Perseverance at another location - would be brought home on a European freighter, due back in 2033.
A vicar is going to need another dog collar after she adopted a Yorkshire terrier that had been dumped on the side of a road.
The Reverend Eleanor Whalley, vicar of Soham in Cambridgeshire, took in 10-year-old Cyril, who was left on the A47 near King's Lynn in Norfolk in November.
Rescued by a passerby, he was rehomed by the RSPCA West Norfolk branch which runs the Eau Brink Rehoming Centre.
Ms Whalley said he is "fast becoming a little celebrity" in her parish.
The vicar said she had started to look for a rescue dog after she lost her terrier Belle who had died aged 14 and when she spotted Cyril on the rescue centre's website she knew it was meant to be.
She added he had "settled in so well" in the parish and is "really enjoying himself".
"He's fast becoming a little celebrity and now he's got his new family with me and the parishioners of Soham," she said.
"His first official engagement was attending our Christmas tree festival and he took it all in his stride and was as good as gold.
"He won't come to every service with me - I think he'll be bored. But he will attend our pet service in the New Year.
"Even though he's 10 he's turned out to be very youthful in his character - and I hope he will become a real ambassador for rescue dogs and rescue centres."
Branch manager, Carl Saunders, said: "Sometimes rehoming older dogs can prove more difficult but it was clear to see that Eleanor and Cyril were a perfect match.
"It's always wonderful to see a rescue pet thriving in their new home with their own loving family - but the fact Cyril will bring such joy to a large community is just heartwarming.
"His story is a little Christmas miracle."
An eighth generation oyster farmer has joined a legal bid to toughen government policy on water companies discharging sewage into the sea.
Family business Richard Haward Oysters, based on Mersea Island, Essex, has operated for 253 years.
Operations manager Tom Haward said the "industry could be destroyed if water companies aren't held to account".
Anglian Water said it was investing more than £200m to reduce spillages across the East of England.
Untreated sewage is discharged into costal waters by storm overflows, which are designed to prevent sewers becoming overloaded in an emergency.
However, their use has increased in recent years as climate change has led to more rainfall and water infrastructure has not kept pace with population growth, the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) said.
The government has given water firms until 2050 to invest in and improve sewers to prevent them from overflowing into English waterways and coastlines.
A claim for a judicial review has been made by Mr Haward, the Marine Conservation Society, activist Hugo Tagholm and the Good Law Project.
The group hopes to compel the government to impose tighter deadlines on water companies to significantly reduce the use of storm overflows and expand protection for coastal waters.
While Mr Haward's business has not been adversely affected by sewage, he said it was important to "stand up and shout about things like this".
"Our oysters are safe to eat and the waters are beautiful and clean," he said.
"But it's about pre-empting it before it becomes a problem, as opposed to it happening and overwhelming us and then becoming too late to do anything about it."
Mr Haward said he wanted to not only safeguard his family's business but the industry as a whole.
"The industry has a legacy," he said.
"The UK's famous for it, Mersea is very famous for it and I'm proud to be part of that."
Mr Haward said there had been "a renaissance of oyster eaters in the UK" and so the industry could have "an amazing future".
"So it's really important we safeguard it and protect it for its future," he said.
Defra has declined to comment on the legal bid.
A spokeswoman for Anglian Water said: "We completely accept Combined Sewer Overflows (CSOs) are history, particularly as our climate changes and extreme weather is more commonplace.
"But until they can be eradicated, they act as a necessary safety valve in old sewerage systems, to protect homes and businesses from flooding during heavy rainfall."
"I wake up in the night thinking about it," Maria Morgan says. "We're guinea pigs."
Maria is on the front line of the UK's efforts to cut greenhouse gas emissions and combat climate change.
Her house in Whitby in Ellesmere Port, north-west England, is one of 2,000 homes earmarked to have its supply of natural gas turned off.
If the Whitby proposal is approved, pure hydrogen will flow through its pipes from 2025. Hydrogen's advantage is that unlike natural gas, it doesn't produce the climate-warming gas CO2 when burnt.
Homes currently account for about 17% of the UK's greenhouse gas emissions and as part of efforts to fight climate change, the government is aiming to phase out natural gas boilers from 2035.
But with 23m homes currently connected to the gas grid, moving them to cleaner forms of energy will be a huge task.
In order to trial greener technologies Whitby, along with Redcar in the north-east of England, have been named as candidates to convert to hydrogen . One of them will be chosen next year and become the UK's first "hydrogen village".
But is hydrogen safe? The government and gas companies say it can be, even though hydrogen is both more leaky and combustible than natural gas.
It's also not clear how green the village will actually be. Though hydrogen can be made from water using renewable energy, more than 99% of the world's supply is currently made from fossil fuels, creating CO2 emissions.
While some Whitby residents welcome the proposal, others feel they're being forced to take part in a dangerous experiment. Sitting next to Maria on the sofa when the BBC visit is her friend Margaret Walsh.
"It's horrendous. The stress. I mean that is all that is being talked about in my house."
Stephen Lyth, who lives just round the corner, said he and his wife feel like "lab rats".
If the trial goes ahead, there will be no more natural gas in the Whitby "hydrogen village" area. Residents will have to choose between converting their homes to hydrogen or going electric with a heat pump, with all the new appliances provided free of charge.
Both the gas companies and the government say residents are worrying needlessly about safety. They say that though hydrogen is more explosive, additional measures will be in place making the risk similar to that of natural gas.
That doesn't wash with Tom Baxter, an expert in Chemical and Process Engineering and Visting Professor at the University of Strathclyde.
"Would you buy a car from a salesman who said, 'This car will crash more often but because of the safety features, we will be just as safe?" he asks. "You wouldn't do it."
For the last few months, representatives from British Gas and Cadent have been visiting homes in the area to service existing gas appliances for free, assess their readiness for hydrogen and address any concerns. If Whitby gets selected, residents will be supplied with hydrogen at the same price as natural gas for a two-year trial.
Some Whitby residents, like Phil Garnett, are supportive, excited by the prospect not just of new and free appliances, but also about doing something he sees as beneficial to the environment.
"We're trying to move towards a greener, cleaner energy to reduce the carbon emissions in the atmosphere," he says. "I'm definitely all for it."
Reindeer herder Elle Merete Omma says climate change is causing problems for her animals, but so are the carbon-cutting industries designed to fight it.
"We are having a double burden actually at the moment," says Ms Omma, "I'm worried about the future."
She belongs to a community of indigenous Sami reindeer herders near the city of Umeå in northern Sweden, who say they've been affected by the climate crisis.
Thick fluffy snow usually falls from November onwards, but the start of this winter was mild, with rain and sleet instead. This freezes quickly and makes it harder for reindeer to graze on lichen, their major food source.
A nearby hilltop wind farm, designed to cut emissions by producing renewable energy, isn't helping, argues Ms Omma. This is because the turbines have cut off grazing lands where snow typically "lays more often and stays for a longer period".
A powerful arctic winter storm will make its way through the US and Canada this week, bringing with it crippling snow and freezing temperatures.
The "once-in-a-generation" storm began in the Pacific Northwest on Tuesday, and has made its way east through the Rockies as of Wednesday morning.
It is then expected to hit the Great Lakes later this week, and will become a "bomb cyclone" by early Friday.
The storm has already disrupted travel for many ahead of the holidays.
Big US airlines like United, American, Delta and Southwest have issued fee waivers to travellers who wish to reschedule their flights in anticipation of the big storm.
More than 70 million people from Washington state to Maryland are under a winter weather alert.
In Vancouver and Seattle, flights were cancelled on Tuesday as the storm began to hit the region.
As it moves east, the storm is anticipated to dump heavy snow into major midwestern airports in Detroit and Chicago by Thursday. It is also expected to cause widespread power outages in the area.
The National Weather Service in Brooklyn, New York has called it a once-in-a-generation winter weather event, especially as the storm reaches the Great Lakes region, where its pressure is expected to reach the equivalent of a Category 3 hurricane.
Chicago's National Weather Service branch has warned of a "significant threat to life for anyone stranded in the storm", as the wind speed is expected to be greater than 55mph (88.5kph).
As the storm develops, meteorologists anticipate it will turn into a "bomb cyclone" because it will intensify at a rapid rate.
The storm will also bring life-threatening frigid temperatures that are 40 degrees Fahrenheit below average. Every state in the continental US could see temperatures below 20F (-6C) on Christmas Eve, the National Weather Service said.
Bomb cyclone is a term given by meteorologists to a storm that appears to intensify rapidly, with its central air pressure dropping to at least 24 millibars in 24 hours.
They are referred to as 'bomb' cyclones due to the explosive power of these storms caused by the rapid fall in pressure.
The storm brings with it an array of weather, ranging from blizzards to severe thunderstorms to heavy precipitation.
These types of storms are most common on the east coast of the US and Canada, where the cool land and warm Gulf Stream current provide optimal conditions for a bomb cyclone to develop.
The Vega vehicle was lost 2.5 minutes into its latest mission from the Kourou spaceport in French Guiana.
It was carrying two French-built, high-resolution Earth imaging spacecraft.
This is the third Vega failure in eight outings and puts further pressure on the European satellite sector which no longer has use of Russian rockets and will soon witness the retirement of the heavy-lift Ariane-5 launcher.
The follow-on replacement, Ariane-6, is a year at least from entering service.
It was the new variant of Vega, known as Vega C, that failed. This rocket has four stages in total, most of which burn a solid fuel.
It lifted away from Kourou at 22:47 local time on Tuesday (03:47 CET/02:47 GMT on Wednesday).
The motor on the first stage, called P120C, appeared to perform without issue.
The anomaly occurred in the rocket's second-stage, the Zefiro 40.
A massive winter storm is expected to bring icy temperatures, howling winds and blizzard conditions to vast swathes of the US and parts of Canada in time for the holiday season.
It is likely to disrupt plans during one of the busiest travel periods of the year, with a few airlines already issuing waivers to passengers in anticipation of the bad weather.
Meteorologists say the winter storm could become a "bomb cyclone" - an unofficial term for a certain type of powerful, rapidly strengthening storm.
But experts say there are a number of measures people can take to stay safe, whether they stay at home or hit the roads.
The final remaining licences required for Virgin Orbit to launch from Spaceport Cornwall have been issued by the UK space regulator.
The Civil Aviation Authority has granted the launch operator and range control licences, which have been signed off by the Transport Secretary.
The CAA said it was "another major milestone" towards the first orbital space launch from UK soil.
A launch from the spaceport at Cornwall Airport Newquay is expected in January.
Earlier in December the launch was pushed back due to technical issues.
Virgin Orbit's Cosmic Girl 747 has been at Spaceport Cornwall since October, followed a week later by their LauncherOne rocket that will carry nine satellites.
The CAA said the company had "taken all reasonable steps to ensure safety risks arising from launch activities are as low as reasonably practicable".
Tim Johnson, director for space regulation at the UK Civil Aviation Authority, said: "This is another major milestone in enabling the very first orbital space launch from UK shores and these licences will assist Virgin Orbit with their final preparations for launch."
Spaceport Cornwall was granted an operating licence by the CAA in November.
Each of the nine satellites also requires a licence, but these are understood to be imminent.
It's been a complex business pulling together all the regulatory threads for this licence.
Demonstrating its rocket system is safe has been paramount of course, but Virgin has also had to pass environmental as well as fit and proper person tests.
In addition, the location of the upcoming launch, out over the Atlantic, has required the agreement and co-ordination of the Irish, Spanish and Portuguese governments.
The nod from Dublin was complicated in recent weeks by the changeover of prime minister, or Taoiseach.
The CAA has kept its promise, however, to process a rocket licence application in under 18 months.
We were expecting a launch on 14 December, but this was pushed back when Virgin Orbit discovered a technical issue on one of its Newton rocket engines during testing in California.
This demanded further inspection and assessment of the rocket already delivered to Newquay for the Cornwall launch.
Once the company is satisfied it's ready, a further notice to aircraft and mariners will be issued to warn them of the activity that's coming, expected for sometime in January.
Dan Hart, chief executive of Virgin Orbit, said the licencing decision "takes us one step closer to the first satellite launch take-off from UK soil".
He said: "This is a major milestone for the CAA and represents the successful completion of an enormous effort, which has included the construction of new regulations, new processes and new teams."
A specific date for the launch has not yet been set.
Melissa Thorpe, head of Spaceport Cornwall, said: "We are thrilled for the Virgin Orbit licenses to be in place for this historic launch.
"It has been an incredible effort by all partners to reach this milestone, and my team cannot wait to share in the excitement of the upcoming launch with everyone that has made it happen."
Speaking to BBC Radio Cornwall, Steve Double, MP for St Austell and Newquay, said he was very keen for the launch to take place.
He said: "For me this is such an exciting opportunity for Cornwall and something I'm now desperate to see happen."